Mr President, first of all, I want to thank the rapporteur, Mr Evans, very much for what has been sound and constructive cooperation that has led to a good report. It has been a great pleasure to cooperate with you. The continuation of sound competition policy is the main aim of the review being undertaken by legislation in the area of competition. In Denmark this very summer, we have seen the importance of effective competition policy. In that connection, I should like to commend and thank you, Commissioner Monti, for your active contribution regarding the great SAS/Maersk aviation issue which has enlivened our summer recess and which involved the discovery of an illegal cartel and the imposition of a large fine. Without your and the Commission’s efforts, such progress would never have been made on this issue and consumers would never have received help. I am therefore satisfied with Article 3 of the Commission’s proposal, which clearly states that it is the Community’s and not the Member States’ competition law that is applied when it comes to transnational issues of competition.For the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, it is vital that there be no renationalisation of the EU’s competition policy. It is, of course, no secret that there are many of us who are concerned that the Commission’s proposal might lead to renationalisation and thus to an undermining of the internal market, something which would hit small and medium-sized companies hardest and be to the disadvantage of consumers. You must therefore promise us, Commissioner, to keep a very careful eye on the national competition authorities, and I can assure you that I shall keep an eye on you and make sure you live up to our expectations, something which you have, of course, done so far. I should therefore also like to strike a blow for the Commission’s competition authority being given more resources so that we do not run the risk of competition policy being watered down and taken over by the Member States.If, as is rumoured, the Council rejects Article 3, I would strongly urge you, Mr Monti, to withdraw your entire proposal and start afresh. Without Article 3, the proposal is unacceptable to the  Group. The Council’s hesitation concerning Article 3 makes it abundantly clear how crucial it is for Parliament to be given the right of codecision making on competition policy. This is something that Parliament has demanded for many years now and, with the forthcoming Intergovernmental Conference, the time must now be ripe for action.
While I voted in favour of the Swoboda report on financial assistance for Turkey for the pre-accession strategy, I believe that the EU should be talking more toughly to the Turkish Government about its human rights abuses especially towards the Kurds. It should also monitor fair distribution of the money.In view of renewed military repression in the Kurdish south-east – with the probable aim of provoking the PKK – and recent arrests and disappearances of activists in HADEP (a legal political party) it seems Turkey is going backwards rather than forwards in respect of the Copenhagen criteria.
Mr President, I should like to begin by paying some compliments on the work that has been done so far. I think, in fact, that some splendid things were put forward in connection with the Göteborg Summit, and I also think that the work which has now been done on the reports from the individual countries shows that it is only right to broaden the agenda. We must not just talk about the growing burden of the elderly and the economic consequences, but also about how we obtain a good pension system. I also think, however, that it is important that this work should not just remain work done behind closed doors between politicians, officials and experts. Moreover, I should like to ask the Commissioner what plans she has to put some impetus into a broader public debate about this coordination of pensions made to run in parallel. The open method must be open in the true sense of the word, so that the public is also involved. What will the Commissioner do? Will she give an undertaking that more efforts will be made to increase public…(The President cut the speaker off)
Madam President, let me say from the outset that I condemn terrorism wherever it takes place. But I condemn in particular the attacks on the Indian Parliament and the US cultural centre. There is no justification for terrorism, whatever the perceived provocation.But we have to look at the root causes of terrorism. That is why I am delighted that we have widened this resolution, even though we were unable to change the title; I would not like us to think that we are linking any country or organisation with these attacks. We still have no real knowledge of who perpetrated them so I am very pleased that the Indian government is investigating it and that Pakistan is helping with that investigation.It gives me the opportunity to address the wider problem: the threat of war again between India and Pakistan. I welcome President Musharraf's announcement that he is clamping down on terrorism, but it is also important to look at the dispute over Jammu and Kashmir, which has been going on for over 50 years. I repeat the call for the EU to offer its services as a facilitator to both sides and to take account of the relevant UN resolutions. What I am proposing is something similar to what Senator Mitchell did in Northern Ireland. The people who continue to suffer are the ordinary people and civilians of India, Pakistan and Kashmir. People who say a facilitator provided by the EU, the Commonwealth or the UN is no way forward are not offering any alternative. We have to find an alternative to the bloodshed and to the continuation of this dispute. I hope we will vote for the resolution, to demonstrate not only our horror of terrorism but also the desire to find a solution to the tension within this region.
Mr President, as the first vice-president of the Parliamentary Delegation for Relations with Switzerland, Iceland and Norway over the last three years, I have been privileged to represent Parliament on several occasions at ministerial meetings on the Northern Dimension.I want to concentrate on process – that is what concerns me – and Parliament's right to contribute properly to the new action plan. I welcome the action plan and the effort that both the Swedish presidency and most recently, the Danish presidency, have put in to the Northern Dimension. Enlargement will represent a step change in the Northern Dimension. It will no longer be a matter of high foreign policy just about the relationship with Russia. It will be about many countries that will now be Member States and the neighbours will be different. It will involve matters that have to do with the EU's regional and environmental policy. That means that civil society and Members of this House and other elected representatives need to be properly and fully involved.At the first ministerial meeting I attended in Luxembourg, there was a commitment to have a Northern Dimension forum. It has yet to see the light of day. That ought to have happened a long time ago. I sense that there is some reluctance to fully involve this House in the Northern Dimension. I hope I am wrong. As this policy changes, I would like to see a much more regular system of annual reporting and involvement with this House, because the Northern Dimension concerns all our citizens. The environment and climate in the far north is important to European solidarity.I urge the Commissioner to involve this House fully.
Madam President, during this afternoon’s vote, there was unfortunately some confusion with regard to the Jarzembowski report. The view adopted by my group was that if cargo handling was not included in the directive, we would vote against it. We thought that that was the case, but that appeared not so. Hence the confusion. It was our group’s intention at the end, during the final vote, to vote in favour and not against, as we did, and I should like to have this minuted.
Mr President, there is talk here and there about information from Stockholm and Sweden concerning how many stem cell lines there are. I wonder about the date to which the answer obtained by Mr Liese is relevant. A lot has happened since 2002. I have received an answer from the Carolingian Institute to the effect that they only have three well-characterised stem cell lines now available to them. That is significantly fewer. I hope that the Commission discriminates according to date in this area.
UK Liberal Democrats are voting with this budget line as proposed by the Committee on Budgets, but in anticipation that further discussion is to take place in order to meet the substantive points of Mr Jan Mulder, MEP, and to find more financial resources within the overall total without either depleting the reserves or calling upon the Council to provide new funds.Reconstruction aid to Kosovo is essential but the pile-up of earlier unspent budget lines means that more discussion might be fruitful.
Mr President, this report builds on previous excellent work in the European Parliament and other EU institutions. Its starting point is the European Year Against Racism 1997 but the context has moved on significantly. I very much welcome the positioning of the fight against race discrimination firmly in a human rights context by placing it in this joint debate because that is very much the approach taken in this report.The first theme highlighted is that in the last year we have established two facts in law and in practice. The first is the legal competence of the European Union to fight racism. The second is the fact that race discrimination is a breach of a fundamental right and European Union law. This is reflected in the confirmation through the accession process, not least the Commission communication on which Mr Belder has reported, and I congratulate him, that respect for racial equality and minority rights falls within the Copenhagen criteria. Could I just say as an aside that the  amendments to Mr Belder’s report amplify rather than conflict with his report and were tabled because, unfortunately, the Citizens Rights Committee opinion was not voted on in the Foreign Affairs Committee.The second theme emphasised in my report is to positively welcome diversity as a source of social vitality, economic prosperity and international influence. European identity is not a homogenous white culture and it can, and must, expand to encompass the experience and culture of minority communities.Thirdly my report notes that racial prejudice and discrimination poisons our whole society, including for white people. Surveys show that racism has increased and there is an increase in racist violence and support for extremist parties. On the other hand there is also progress, however bumpy, and some regions and cities in Europe are becoming at ease with a multi-racial and multi-cultural way of life. I would cite London, which I represent, as the multi-racial capital of Europe. Certainly I believe we need to talk a lot about racism and diversity and identity, not sideline the issues or talk in code. Some may find the language in my report blunt and it is certainly intended to be clear and unambiguous. This report stresses a rights-based approach and particularly welcomes the prospect of EU anti-discrimination legislation based on Article 13 and other legal measures such as enhanced rights for third country nationals. But that cannot be the end of the story and there are measures proposed in the field of education, media and politics, and justice in policing, immigration and asylum policy, which would be aimed to back up the implementation of legislation.Could I just address three aspects which I understand caused some difficulty for some Members of the EPP-ED Group. The first is the mention of Austria and the entry of Haider’s party into government and recalling the Parliament’s decision in February. I have to say that it would be perverse to discuss the European Union’s strengthened response to racism without referring to recent developments which have been a landmark in establishing that the European Union is a community of values based on respect for human rights. The second area where there are apparently EPP-ED hesitations is regarding enhanced rights for legally resident third country nationals of which there are around 20 million in the Union. My understanding is that there is nothing in this report that the EPP has not been able to accept in the past. The third area which I understand creates some problems for the EPP-ED Group is the belief that this report breaches subsidiarity by mentioning matters like education and policing. But as I said in opening, the combination of Articles 6 and 7, Article 13 and Article 29 of the Treaties have established that the combating of race discrimination is an objective and a competence of the European Union including the area of policing.There are a few of the EPP-ED amendments which I can accept although it is perhaps a pity that they did not make more input at committee stage. Could I appeal to Members of that group to deal with their points of disagreement by making explanations of vote. I believe this report will get majority support here in plenary. It was adopted by a large majority in committee and some of the supporters of the Conservatives andmay not appreciate their failure to be part of that majority.Could I just finally say that I can accept some of the amendments from the Green Group and the GUE, particularly the one which I welcome to replace the term “holocaust” by “Shoah”. There is some confusion from the GUE Group about the purpose of ethnic monitoring which is simply to collect statistics on the progress of ethnic minorities so as to be a basis for future policy. It is not in order to identify discrimination and I hope they will understand if I reject their amendments on that.I hope very much that the report will get a large majority when it is voted on later.
Mr President, there is no point flogging a dead horse. This is why the disastrous vicious circle of loans, debts and new loans must be broken. The immense repayment costs prevent any form of development. There is hardly any money left for education, health care or for building well-functioning government machinery. Debt relief is therefore a matter of extreme urgency. This should be facilitated in a joint effort involving all creditors, the Union, the States, especially the United States, international institutions and banks.However, a very broad strategy will not get us much further. The debt cancellation programmes must be tailored to the specific circumstances of each individual country. It is essential in this respect to tackle not just the social problems, but also to lay a firm foundation for sustainable economic development. If this fails to materialise, then foreign investments will not be forthcoming either.A prerequisite for relieving debts is sound financial housekeeping within the governments concerned. We should not be naïve about this. We can no longer write out blank cheques. In the past, billions never reached the intended causes. A great deal of money got into the hands of corrupt regimes which allowed Swiss banks to benefit from the large-scale theft of development aid. When will the civilised world finally realise that countries which maintain banking secrecy are accessory to huge crimes at the expense of the poorest population groups.The IMF and the World Bank started an initiative back in 1996 to relieve the debts of the poorest countries. Last summer, the conditions were amended, with good reason. Aid was made conditional upon tangible results. It would be wonderful if the European Union and the Member States were to take a generous stance if the conditions were met. Let us do everything possible to help the poorest countries fight poverty. This can work if the victim is involved in his own rescue.
Mr President, I would firstly like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Kuckelkorn, for an excellent report. Next year’s budget is very rigorous in terms of the administrative budget, as the rapporteur stated. The fact that this year we shall have ten new Member States and the same number of new official languages makes it all the more rigorous.The issue of Parliament’s multilingualism is an enormous challenge. It calls for a new kind of flexibility in the areas of translation and interpreting. Nowhere else in the world is there a body that functions so multilingually as the EU institutions. This nevertheless requires special action and care; otherwise, the multicultural principle could become chaos. That is why the administration should make a special effort to ensure that the posts are filled and the translation work flows smoothly right from the moment of accession. In the new environment there will be an increase in retour interpreting. This could lead to a situation where all of Parliament is dependent on one interpreter who is translating from a less common official language into a more common one. To ensure the quality of translation work it will be necessary to translate from more than one interpretation booth. This in practice means making special demands on the ‘bigger’ language groups, such as English, French and German, making it necessary for them to be able to translate from more source languages than the other interpreter groups.A major political issue in recent years has been the adoption of the Members’ Statute. It was hugely disappointing that it should have become the subject of internal disagreements in the Council. The European Parliament, and its current President, Patrick Cox, in particular, had worked very hard dealing with this matter, and, consequently, it was too bad that it was torpedoed. It is important that the Members’ Statute is adopted speedily, so that it could come into effect preferably by the start of the next parliamentary term.This year’s budget at long last saw the implementation of activity-based budgeting as far as the Commission is concerned. It allows us to see directly how much each activity costs. The same activity-based budgeting approach should also gradually be applied to the administrative budget, to the European Parliament, for example. This way we would also be in a better position to monitor developments in administrative costs and expenditure in different administrative branches. I would like to wish the rapporteur every success in his work.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, freedom of expression and freedom of choice are a precious right for liberals, but not at any price. The receipt of e-mail is considerably less free of strings for the receiver than the receipt of paper leaflets and brochures. The costs may total EUR 10 billion annually for receivers, not to mention the cost in time. We therefore need, just as with paper leaflets, “No thank you” stickers. Personally, I would gladly opt for self-regulation by industry, but in practice it is clear that “opt-out” is not sustainable. For this reason, the Liberal group will support the Commission’s proposal for “opt-in”. Meanwhile there is a bill before the US congress for an “opt-in” that paves the way for sound agreements worldwide, which is necessary in an age of unlimited communication.Unwanted post will not be limited to the Internet. The mobile telephone sector will play an increasing role in the period ahead, so that companies and consumers will be saddled with high costs, while the infrastructure becomes very vulnerable.My second remark concerns the storage of traffic data. I refer to the ECHELON debate of this morning. In my view it is an invasion of privacy if traffic data are stored for longer than necessary. As a result consumers will never gain the necessary trust in e-commerce. In conclusion, the rules within the Union should be harmonised. After all, our telecom companies work in a pan-European way and therefore need uniform rules so that legal uncertainty is ruled out. For this reason, subsidiarity in this field is not an option.
Mr President, within our groups in Parliament and within the IGC itself we are still struggling with the problems that proved fairly intractable at Amsterdam. These issues are tricky because they expose both the exaggerated self-importance of small states and the folie de grandeur of the big states. These issues can only be resolved by a greater sense of trust between partners – such trust that is the essential glue of successful federal pacts. This trust is precisely the quality that is needed so that we are able to ensure the successful accession of the new Member States. The fact is – and somebody should say this – that if the IGC fails to resolve the Amsterdam questions, enlargement must be postponed.Thesupports the efforts of the presidency and of the Commission to build up the extra trust required. We support the main thrust of this report. We support especially those elements which expand the European Union’s capacity for action in global affairs: those that strengthen the status and the profile of the citizen, including the Charter; and those that will postulate further political reform in the interests of a strong executive and a mature parliamentary democracy.In this respect the splitting of the Treaties is vital. So is retention of unanimity within the Council exclusively for the most serious questions. Liberals everywhere support ministers that will subscribe to the development of European parliamentary democracy. But we will be savage critics of those who prefer narrow self-interest and threaten the accession of new Member States.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I feel that we must take the opportunity afforded by Mr Napolitano’s report – and all credit is due to him for succeeding in this difficult, complex task – to stress, with all the institutional weight of the European Parliament, the need for the new Europe, which will be founded on the Constitutional Treaty on which the Convention is working, to apply the principle of subsidiarity completely and transparently. This means that the result will only be achieved if subsidiarity is not just applied to relations between the Union and the national States but is extended to the territorial authorities – the regional and local authorities – with all due respect for the constitutional systems of the respective countries, of course. Indeed, it is the territorial authorities – the regional and local authorities – alone which give substance to the democracy of proximity. It is they that make it possible to strengthen the roots of genuine democracy and to bring the citizens closer to the institutions, including the European institutions.The Convention is the forum which has been assigned the task of resolving this thorny issue. It started off focusing its attention solely on the first level of subsidiarity, the subsidiarity between the Union and the States. We need to free ourselves from this trap because, if we endorse this system of two levels of subsidiarity – subsidiarity between the Union and the States and between the States and the territorial authorities – we prevent – and I feel that this is the crux of the matter – recognition of that direct connection between the European institutions and the territorial authorities which now exists and which is yielding promising fruit, where it is not misinterpreted or destroyed at birth.We must resist this temptation at all costs and, to this end, I hope that the Convention will take on board the lengthy debate which has taken place in Europe, particularly in the Council of Europe, on the matter. My hope is that the Convention will succeed in recognising and endorsing the right to local and regional autonomy. This right will then be regulated within the respective legal systems of the individual countries but will have to comprise the single level of subsidiarity, the equal dignity of levels of government, the right of local autonomies to their own financial resources and the right to have access to justice, which can balance the technical needs to prevent this getting out of control against the needs of the territorial authorities, but which cannot stop it happening. It may be that the idea of strengthening the link through the Committee of the Regions is the solution we all need.
Mr President, democracy and human rights in Mediterranean countries are still in a wretched state, the main cause being that the authorities never relinquish power and do not even want to share it. Autocratic regimes can only maintain their hold on power by means of repression and by restricting freedom. The worst hit are the people who are badly governed and lag behind economically and socially. This forms a breeding ground for radicalism on the part of disaffected people that impacts on not only the region itself, but also the rest of the world. The European Union must do everything in its power to exert a positive influence on the situation, therefore. The partnerships provide a good framework for this; one, however, of which we have up to now made insufficient, and insufficiently binding, use. Financial aid alone, without political conditions, will only lead to a deterioration in the situation, and for that reason I welcome this spur to the reinvigoration of policy wholeheartedly.The Commission communication, with its ten priorities, is truly excellent. Many of the proposed actions are in line with the specific suggestions I made in my report on human rights last year. The intentions and approach are good, but, of course, results are by no means guaranteed. We are ultimately aiming to induce the regimes to make fundamental changes in their behaviour that they would not have been inclined to make of their own accord. The new actions must not lead to bureaucratisation, but rather to specific objectives that are tested systematically. It is very important to give the situation a positive boost.Can the Commissioner tell us how our partners have reacted up to now, apart from Morocco and Jordan, which he has already mentioned? Can he also explain how the EU’s approach relates to the policy of the United States with regard to the region? To what extent is there transatlantic coordination? The proposed spur to action comes not a moment too soon. Further deterioration in the region could have far-reaching consequences. Many regimes say that security is more important than democracy. This contradiction could hardly be more mistaken. It is precisely a lack of democracy that makes the situation hopeless and dangerous. Anyone striving for security and prosperity must first safeguard democracy and human rights. I should like to hear answers from the Commissioner to my questions.
Mr President, on the subject of the role the European Union can play in the Middle East, I would like to begin by expressing my gratitude for the role played for many years by its representative in the region, Miguel Angel Moratinos, who has worked with few resources, but whose work has been and must be deservedly valued. I hope that his successor will have more resources in order to take action there.I believe that the war in Iraq has contributed to worsening the situation in Palestine. A decision such as the war in Iraq, a unilateral one, has led to a worsening of the situation and an increase in acts of terror. I believe, therefore, that the European Union must strengthen acts of multilateralism such as the Quartet and the establishment of the road map.We must demand from the leaders, both Israeli and Palestinian, the political commitment to seek peace. Selective assassinations must come to an end and terrorist attacks must also come to an end; we must remember that not only terrorists are implicated in an attack, but also those who provide them with resources and those who perhaps turn a blind eye to the preparation of those attacks.
Mr President, Commissioner, the crisis in the Philippines we are discussing is a tragedy. I represent one of the countries which has citizens as hostages there. We appeal to the European Commission to ensure that its representatives continue actively to urge President Estrada to refrain from any assaults which might put the hostages’ lives at risk. I also sincerely hope that the hostages will be able to benefit from any medical aid, for example, that Médecins Sans Frontières might be allowed access so that we may thereby protect the lives of those who are currently hostages.There is, nonetheless, something to be learned from all tragic events. I also believe that the Finnish people have learned that the basis for the present conflict is social injustice and that, far apart from one another though we may be, we are nonetheless affected by precisely such social injustices and violations of human rights.
When the Council adopted a directive in 1999 authorising the application of reduced VAT rates to certain labour-intensive services, it was understood that this was an experimental measure due to expire on 31 December 2002.Given the circumstances, the decision to extend this measure until the end of 2003 is a positive factor, as emphasised by the rapporteur. In fact, we need to prevent a legal vacuum from being created after 31 December 2002, as this would be harmful to the businesses concerned, in particular, very small, small and medium-sized enterprises.The hotel and catering sector must benefit from a preferential VAT rate, given the very high level of social and fiscal charges that it pays in general. Employers in the catering sector, which is highly labour-intensive, have difficulties both in financing their investments and in recruiting additional staff.Workers in this sector quite rightly consider that reducing the rate of VAT would allow a significant number of employees to be recruited. A reduction in VAT rates would also allow many establishments to adjust working hours. Lastly, this measure would allow tax to be collected more fairly.- Report Busk (A5-0362/2002)
Mr President, when Turkey joins the European Union the impact and the benefits will be considerable. The EU will then have to adjust, and in a welcoming way. But, in the shorter term, it is Turkey which has to adjust the most, in particular to meet the Copenhagen political criteria. I am glad the Commissioner stressed these. We cannot fulfil our role of critical friend by soft-pedalling on the need for drastic change, particularly with regard to guaranteeing individual freedom and a legitimate right to the Kurds. Indeed the key to reform is ending the war against the Kurds, which gives the pretext for the state of emergency and the repression that goes with it.The Kurds deserve a peaceful settlement involving a degree of political devolution and respect for their cultural and linguistic rights. To say this is not to be anti-Turkish. Will not other Turkish citizens benefit also?The arrest and imprisonment of HADEP leaders like Sakharov prize-winner Leyla Zana and human rights campaigner Akin Birdal is an impediment to Turkey's progress to the EU. To allow the European Parliament to vote for Turkey's accession when the time comes, reformers in Europe and Turkey must work together to lobby for change, as the Commissioner advised.
Mr President, after all the misery they have endured, the liberated Iraqi people are now falling victim as we debate who is allowed to help them. Does the reconstruction have to remain in the hands of the Americans with a supporting role for the UN or will it be a truly international enterprise? Bush and Blair of course are disinclined to give the members of the anti-war coalition a leading role and to allow them to benefit from juicy reconstruction contracts. But only the UN can end the sanctions and in particular open the door to substantial international contributions and judge with authority whether the new Iraqi Government is truly representative. It is very important that the oil revenues should benefit the Iraqi people rather than ending up in the pockets of the President’s Texan friends. Commissioner Nielson appears to share my fear in this regard.Can he explain his statement that America is well on the way to becoming a member of OPEC? The European Union can and must make a humanitarian contribution, a very important one in fact: special attention to women and children, but also to the construction of a democratic constitutional state. If we keep arguing about the role of the EU and the UN, in the end there will only be one victim and that is the Iraqi people.IN THE CHAIR: MR DIMITRAKOPOULOSVice-President
Madam President, while we are thanking Air France for the fact that the aircraft flew between Amsterdam and Strasbourg, I would point out that this was probably because the flight between Copenhagen and Strasbourg was cancelled. On this occasion, it was therefore a case of one man’s loss being another man’s gain. I would also ask you to consider the possibility that Air France might not have enough aircraft, given that the cancellation was due to technical reasons.
Mr President, openness and public scrutiny of the basis of a democratic form of government are the prerequisites for citizens being able to follow the public decision-making process and to participate in this process. The opportunity of gaining access to public documents creates greater confidence and legitimacy, something the EU has precious little of at present.International research also shows a clear connection between open administration and a low level of corruption. The Cashman report is, therefore, not just any old report. This report establishes the essence of what will become a European principle of public access to official documents, that is to say, the principle that all documents must be publicly available. There will be few exceptions and these will be clearly regulated. All documents must be registered. The documents must be examined on a case-by-case basis. If access is refused, a reason for this must be provided.The Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy objects to the idea that documents relating to foreign affairs and security issues will automatically and collectively be excluded from public inspection. This would be unacceptable. In this sphere, too, every document must be examined individually. We have therefore proposed, as a democratic safety valve, that those documents which – after examination – cannot be made public, could be communicated to a small group of Members of Parliament. However, it is important that this in no way replaces the desire for as many documents as possible to be made available to the public at large: journalists, interest groups and individual citizens.Article 255 of the EC Treaty concerns citizens' access to documents. The rights of the institutions ought to be developed further in separate provisions.The Cashman report is the first step on a long road towards increased openness, democracy and confidence on the part of our citizens. A common directive is necessary and important. Much work will also be needed in order to change the attitudes and the culture within the different institutions and progressively replace them with an understanding that openness is necessary, natural, effective and democratic. We now await the Council's move.
Mr President, I think that we are voting now. We have had an opportunity to debate, and I have had close contact with the shadow rapporteurs and the groups that have been interested in contact.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mr Schmitt for his contribution, which gave guidance on the report on which we will be voting today. In principle, I think that it is important for us to only regulate on a European level things that actually have added value. These are things that we really need to organise properly in a European context. I am therefore very critical of the turn of phrase Mr Schmitt has chosen, and with the direction of this report, which is, I think, doing too much damage to the authority recently obtained by the European Commission with the intervention of the European Court. I myself would like to see the Commission have ample authority in this area in order to ensure that all bilateral aviation agreements between the EU and third countries are concluded according to the same principle. This would prevent the unnatural fragmentation of the European aviation market and ensure that the many bilateral agreements are consigned to the scrap heap from now on.The oldest open skies agreement in Europe, the one between the Netherlands and America, is not covered by this decision as it dates back to 1991 and therefore precedes the setting up of the internal market. This agreement, however, will not remain tenable if all other similar bilateral agreements are no longer considered permissible.I remain so critical of some of the amendments in this report, however, that if these are adopted here, I can imagine that the Dutch Government would insist on a new decision by the Court, as a result of which the current arrangements with the United States would be delayed for a couple of years. I am very worried about Amendment No 13, which allows Member States to disregard a comment from the Commission on bilateral agreements with third countries. Amendments Nos 2 and 15 permit the monopoly rights of specific airlines to remain unaffected on certain routes. Furthermore, Amendments Nos 3 and 16 entirely deprive the Commission of the verification procedure which enables it to object to bilateral agreements between the EU Member State and a third country. Amendment No 5 also gives the Council the power to overrule the Commission by way of the comitology procedure. Furthermore, Amendments Nos 6 and 7 give Member States the opportunity to allow national interests to play a major role in the conclusion of new bilateral aviation agreements. The airlines themselves will also be the victims on account of Amendment Nos 4 and 18 as they will be poorly informed about any new negotiations or the transparency of what has been agreed. In short, I had the feeling that we would have to put up with the decision of the European Court, but it now seems that real, honest, open competition in the European aviation market is not yet so important and that we apparently want to curb this authority. So I am sorry but I hope that we do not accept the amendments, otherwise I will be compelled to vote against them.
Mr President, may I join in the praise of the Presidents of the Commission and Council for having brokered the deal at Laeken. To have got a British Prime Minister to have signed up to the prospect of a federal constitution is an extraordinary thing. It is certainly unprecedented. I fear though that the size of the podium in this chamber will require strengthening and extension so that it can fit in Valerie Giscard d’Estaing and his entourage. The European citizen will feel truly privileged that we have such a grand praesidium to service our work. Thank you for the 60 questions or so. Frankly, I would have wished for more.First, there is nothing on strengthening the powers of the Court. Secondly, there is nothing on revising the formula of a qualified majority in the Council. Thirdly, there is nothing on strengthening the role of the regions within the political system of the Union and, fourthly and finally, we would have appreciated some critical self-assessment of the functioning and performance of the European Council itself. But we are blessed with a truly pluralist procedure – an exciting and novel one – and we retain the freedom within the Convention to ask ourselves questions. We will exploit that freedom.
Madam President, theGroup supports the reform set out in the White Paper and which we have been able to discuss with the Commissioner. We look forward to receiving the concrete proposals from the Committee on Budgets and the other committees.Like the previous speaker, we accept this proposal as a one-off measure, a necessary measure in order to take the reforms forward. We also believe that it is cost-neutral. We are also pleased that the Commission has realised that the other institutions must have similar rights, that this will be included in the scheme and that it will be accepted.When we compare our institutions, I would like to warn the Commissioner about one point, namely about accepting the promotion system which we have in the European Parliament. I have heard that the Commission is interested in this, but I have unfortunately received indications that there will be no real assessment of the actual knowledge of various employees as the assessment is a “zero sum game”. This is said by way of welcoming the continued reform work.
Mr President, Mr Fiori’s report on genetics marks an important stage in the European and international debate on a sensitive, far-reaching issue which demands close attention in the political world because of the responsibilities it involves. Science must make progress and move forwards, and we only know a tiny fraction of what there is to know, not least about the cells we are talking about. That does not, however, mean that anything goes: just as freedom is, in itself, an absolute value but is never absolute because of the way things are, so science and scientific research are vital assets because of the important discoveries that can be put at the service of human kind but they cannot be considered absolute, that is to say, removed from legal, ethical or moral constraints.The position of the European Republicans, the Democrats and the Italy of values thus coincides with the position expressed in the vote on the Caudron report: it rejects human cloning and genetic manipulation but supports the priority funding of research on adult stem cells and embryo stem cells derived from spontaneous and therapeutic abortions, subject to strict public control.Ladies and gentlemen, the great area of debate between bioethics and law has been opened up, but it should not be approached from moralistic positions because the distinction is not between progressive secular people and conservative Catholics, that is a black-and-white, simplistic view, but rather between those who believe that science should be allowed to do anything, even if it goes against the dignity of life, and those who believe that that should not be possible.Our thanks, in any case, go to Mr Fiori: we believe that his is an important piece of work, especially if our major amendments are accepted; it will be a good basis for reflection from now onwards and for preventing major discoveries from becoming patented property for the use and consumption of the powerful rather than being placed at the service of all human kind.
Mr President, Commissioner, I live in the middle of the Nordic forests, which form part of the enormous area of Europe covered by forests. In the Nordic countries, we obviously do not have the same problems as in the Mediterranean area. It is therefore incorrect to talk in this context about the forests of Europe. The forests of Europe are very, very different from one another. I could spend all night and all of tomorrow talking about the history of the forests and about the enormous importance Europe’s forest areas are going to have in a future sustainable Europe.However, this report concerns the threats to our forests. For the forests in northern and central Europe, the greatest threats are from airborne forms of pollution. Unfortunately, we cannot prevent pollution by means of forest policy but only by means of environmental, traffic and agricultural policy, in short through general environmental policy. Because most forests are damaged by discharges which come from a long way away, responsibility for the air and climate is global and European.Fires do not constitute a problem for the Nordic forests. On the contrary. To obtain environmental certification, the owners of the forests have to burn down a certain area of them each year. We need more fires. We set fires for ecological reasons. In the Nordic forests, there are a great many species of plant which have waxed seeds. They have to be warmed up by a fire in order to grow. In the Nordic countries, there are also insects which need burning ant hills in order to breed.I believe that we should support the southern countries’ need to fight fires, but that not all forests can be lumped together by talking in this context about European forests.
Mr President, I would like to explain our position on this issue by making four simple points.Firstly, it is unacceptable for us to support what I would call a lawless area, where there is no recognition of the basic aspects of human welfare. I do not think that Europe will ever be able to allow this situation and I believe that each and every one of us, whatever their attachment, can sympathise with it, given the two examples that Mrs Fraisse already mentioned.Secondly, it is clear that the abolition of many symbols, representing what men and women might believe in, is crucially significant, but what is even more serious is the fact that denying any dignity for women’s rights must stir us into action. This is obviously a serious point and it certainly needs to be made.My third point relates to Islam. I believe we must have the courage to say that some people, who have a good understanding of Islam, have denounced the current situation in Afghanistan. By invoking Western values we must not deny this truth, which is that a certain number of men and women who are devoted to Islam oppose the events which are unfolding today in Afghanistan.Therefore, the message that ideas and convictions can peacefully coexist, which must be adopted by Europe, must be disseminated far and wide. So, there must be no demonisation, simply the desire to take action.Fourthly and finally, point 12 of our resolution calls on the United Nations to rapidly establish an independent committee of inquiry. We must arrange a meeting. If the United Nations does not have either the determination or the courage to establish this committee of inquiry, it may fall to the European Parliament to take the initiative on behalf of our shared values and set up such a committee. That is what is expected of Europe: it has its values; it is tolerant; it must demonstrate its determination, perhaps such a meeting has already been arranged. If the United Nations does not act, it is up to us to do so. However, we are sending a very clear message to the Taliban and I hope I have succeeded in obtaining your support.(Applause)
co-rapporteur. – Mr President, I wish to thank the Conference of Presidents for creating and sustaining this unique part-session. I should also like to thank our former colleague, Mr Haarder, and his team because they are creating an historic Danish Presidency. I pay particular tribute to the Commissioner himself and to his team. The Commissioner's powerful leadership has accepted no obstacle that would delay enlargement and he and his team have successfully tackled and overcome immense and daunting problems and have brought us to the happy position we enjoy today.I welcome most particularly in that context the Romanian parliamentary team. Romania, in common with other candidate countries in this two-part but single enlargement, has made substantial progress and her progress has been particularly marked since December 1999 when the new government took office, after the Helsinki Conference. If Romania follows faithfully the Commission's new and excellent roadmap and has the support of the Commission, the Council of Ministers and Parliament, Romania can most definitely reach her target date for EU entry of 1 January 2007 and reach that date not by right but by her own achievement. I therefore wish profoundly to retain that target date in Parliament's report. I am confident that by the end of this week Romania will become a member of Nato. By 1 January 2007, with hard work, consistency, application and our support, she could be here. I commend Romania's progress to this House.
Madam President, I should like to begin – as other colleagues have done today – with a reference to the milestone event in Northern Ireland. The verified decommissioning of IRA weapons has been a necessary and required act for a considerable period of time. It was long overdue, but now that it has happened, it is hugely welcome. Particularly since 11 September it has been increasingly inevitable that such an act should take place. I hope it represents a new dawn, a rebirth, a renaissance for the peace process in Northern Ireland and that all the political actors will now seize this moment to ground and root the peace in the institutions of that agreement. I add my voice to those who have asked all the institutions today, in the clearest terms, to welcome what has happened on behalf of the European Union.I want to say to Prime Minister Verhofstadt, with regard to the Ghent Council, that my group totally supports the clearest and most unequivocal assurances you have given of total solidarity with the United States. That is an important act of solidarity, and an important point of departure. I reiterate, for my group, that we totally support this. If I do not dwell on this, it is simply because there are one or two questions I should like to raise with you, Mr President-in-Office.In particular, we have had rather a long debate about the potential humanitarian crisis. Clearly for areas within control of the Taliban, we cannot blame the world community for Taliban unwillingness to engage with the United Nations, NGOs and others. But I would like to know what specific initiatives we, as the European Union, with our commitment of resources in this area, are now taking to urge Pakistan to open more space for refugees. I appreciate the enormous difficulties. I appreciate they already have two million or more Afghanis within their territory, but can we not, with our financial and organisational capacity, reassure those authorities that if the borders are opened to cope with this crisis they will not be left alone or have to pick up the tab on their own?I should like to turn to the question of the role of the Council of Ministers in following up on the action plan to fight terrorism. In particular, I note the strategic leadership which you offered through the Council at the extraordinary meeting on 21 September. There you made a clear plea to the institutions to seize that moment and act. Here I congratulate the Commission for taking the European Council at its word and bringing forward with extraordinary speed a comprehensive measure to freeze the assets of terrorist organisations.I can tell you in this Parliament that within 24 hours of receiving that, and with the proviso that we should review it in the lifetime of this Parliament, we too seized the moment. That had no precedent ever in European law making. It was with some regret then that one noticed that, if there was a delay, it was among your ‘line managers’ from the European Council down to the Council of Ministers.I have a number of questions: What is the Council doing on the freezing of assets? But I have an important question around it. Can you explain to me, Prime Minister, what does this mean about the quality of governance in the European Union? After all, the Council is there to give a strategic lead. You gave it, the Commission followed; this House followed. The question is: Why did the Council of Ministers not follow with the same alacrity?I would like to pose one other question in relation to the Convention. The Prime Minister has explained to us that the candidate states will participate. I very much welcome that. I ask the Prime Minister to clarify, in the light of the agreement at Helsinki, that all candidate countries will be treated on an equal basis. Does that invitation extend to Turkey? It is important that Turkey should be included, based on the principles clarified at Helsinki. I know it is not a negotiating state, but Helsinki established a clear principle of equality of treatment for candidate states.To summarise: What will we do with Pakistan and humanitarian aid? What does the example of the freezing of assets tell us about the rather dysfunctional quality of governance? Will Turkey be a participant in the process?Finally, I am glad to see that the President of the Commission and the President-in-Office, today at least, are sharing a platform in the European Parliament.
My group is also of the opinion that the mandate that the Commission has been given is a good one, and that it is quite happy to be publicly associated with it. Negotiations have only just begun, and we are sure that if the Commission – Europe – takes a certain step, other trade blocs will have to follow. For us the most important thing is that we have found that the European people do not fully support European agricultural policy at this moment. Clearly this must change, so we must change European agricultural policy. We are in favour of the maximum possible reduction trade subsidies that distort trade, and this applies in particular to export subsidies and other similar subsidies imposed by other trade blocs. We are therefore generally in favour of greater liberalisation of trade in agricultural products. Something else enters into this, however. In Europe we have all sorts of rules which have little to do with the health of the product but much more to do with ethical principles, such as animal welfare, the bird and habitat directive, and so on.Elsewhere in the world, farmers have far fewer of these kinds of rules to contend with. I always find it very difficult to explain to European farmers why they have to adhere to these rules and at the same time compete with farmers elsewhere in the world who do not have to. This seems to me to be a recipe for unfair competition, and I think that the Commission should emphasise this, particularly in its negotiations with the World Trade Organisation. What is more, farmers in various parts of Europe do not always enjoy a very good income.We cannot change everything from one day to the next, and I therefore think that we need to pay great attention to the European agricultural model; this is something that we can certainly defend in an international context. We must be able to reward farmers for their performance on a basis other than their production of agricultural products. I can therefore only emphasise the need for the Commission to defend the worldwide recognition of regional products grown in Europe and the ban on their being grown elsewhere under the same name. The Commission must also emphatically underline our endorsement of a system of integrated agricultural production, with control from stable to table, so to speak. I would also like to emphasise that in addition to the policy of improving product prices, we need another policy to cover the use of agricultural products for industrial purposes. Finally, everything but arms: the overwhelming majority of my group supports this, and we must do something for the poorest developing countries. The great question for our group is that of how the Commission is dealing with the principle of origin, and how, as we intend, we can be sure that products imported by us really do come from the poorest countries.IN THE CHAIR: MR PUERTAVice-President
Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Costa, for his most excellent work. I would also like to say thank you for the interesting debate on the subject with some illuminating examples.I think it is important that the issue is now being dealt with by Parliament. The main principle of the report is quite right, that users should pay for the transport infrastructure and its maintenance costs. Charges for the use of the transport infrastructure must take account of the costs to society, but also the ability-to-pay principle and the need to support remote areas. The importance of charging for the use of the transport infrastructure will increase as a means of controlling the situation in the future. The system of charges must be flexible and dynamic, so that it would offer incentives for the introduction of new technical services. As there are plans, however, for a combination of fares and taxes, we have to take care that we are not simply left with a system of taxation.There are still a lot of problems attached to a system of charges. Covering overall costs with fares will work in areas where there is a lot of transport. Conditions vary regionally, however, to a significant extent, so the same bases for charges cannot apply everywhere. Long distances, scattered populations and difficult natural conditions must be taken account of when the instruments in respect of charges are determined, just as the report states. In my opinion, it is important that we look into the possible impact of the scheme before charging becomes a reality.
Mr President, the concept of the Northern Dimension must be understood in a broad sense. It embraces both the Union’s external relations and its internal policies. In external relations it encompasses the Baltic Sea and Barents Sea areas and the whole of the Arctic region. With the enlargement of the European Union the importance of cross-border cooperation will increase, as the border we share with Russia will lengthen and as we will be acquiring new neighbours.Cross-border cooperation is first and foremost bilateral action between the EU and its Member States, on the one hand, and Russia and our other neighbours, on the other hand. Then again, we also have two viable multilateral forums, the Council of the Baltic Sea States and the Barents Euro-Arctic Council. Bilateral and multilateral action are both restricted by a lack of funds. In bilateral cross-border cooperation EU funding is limited to Interreg projects and to a small number of TACIS projects. Barents and Baltic Sea cooperation is not financed by the Union at all.It is being proposed once again in our joint resolution that a special budget heading should be created for the Northern Dimension. In practice this could mean that EU funding for the area of activity covered by the Council of the Baltic Sea States and the Barents Euro-Arctic Council would be appreciably increased and it would be channelled at least in part through these Councils.This time we are discussing the Northern Dimension on the basis of a statement by the Commissioner in charge of External Relations. The principles of the Northern Dimension must also be remembered when we discuss the enlarging Union’s regional and agricultural policy and other areas of internal policy that particularly affect the development of the northern regions. The importance of the Northern Dimension will also grow with regard to internal policies, when the Baltic countries and Poland join the Union.
Mr President, unlike Mr Chichester, I have no links with the strong Finnish theme in this report, except for the fact that I worked, with the greatest of pleasure, at the Commission under the authority of Commissioner Liikanen. Mr President, I would like to thank the Commission for presenting this communication on the ‘forest-based industry’. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for accepting some of my amendments in the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, even though he sees no need for Amendment No 5, which I presented.I would like to ask just one question, Mr President, which ties in precisely with Amendment No 5 and relates to the position of the publishing industry within the Commission services. I read in the press that, in November 2000, Commissioner Wallström acknowledged the fact that the publishing industry must not be regarded as belonging to the forest-based and related industries, as the place it now occupies within the European Commission might lead one to believe. Is this also the opinion of the Commission? If this is the case, what are its plans for the future?
Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, ‘empty chair’ of the Council, colleagues, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Prodi and his colleagues in the Commission on the considerable progress that has been made in the past year, in particular the work that has been done on reform, which is not one of the high political priorities of the Union but is, nonetheless, one of the inescapable institutional requirements. On behalf of my group I salute the progress which has been made there.We note with particular concern the Commission's report of last week – the pre-Stockholm report – about the Lisbon process. Although we have set the very high aspiration that within a decade we should become the most dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world, we are moving towards it at a lesser pace than ought to be the case. I do not exclude Parliament from this, I am not a sore loser but I was part of the minority which lost in the postal services liberalisation proposal. We are all in this together.I am reminded of a story which is told in the United States about the famous Mayor Richard Daley, who was mayor of several Chicago administrations. In launching one of them he gave a speech and wanted to talk about new plateaux of achievement. But he made a mistake, as we are wont to do when we read our speeches quickly in politics. He committed his new administration to achieving ever-higher 'platitudes' of achievement! It seems to me that we must ensure that is not the commitment we bring to Lisbon, rather that we really drive forward. There is a message for Stockholm that our commitment is real and deep and must be prioritised to deliver.Progress on giving real credibility to food and consumer policy has been substantial in the past twelve months. Much remains to be done, but very substantial progress has been made.On trade and development: my group supports the everything but arms proposition. I hope that as the Commission itself contemplates the sensitivities in agriculture relating to the World Trade Organisation and to the agricultural reform debate, the sequencing of those debates will not be allowed to get in the way of the trade-related initiative. It is an important European initiative and I hope the College will go for it, notwithstanding some of the sequencing difficulties to do with other negotiations which may arise.The  believes that we need to focus more urgent attention on asylum and immigration. I congratulate Mr Vitorino on the work that has been brought forward, but Tampere set an agenda and I wonder why, so long after Tampere, we are still struggling to define what that agenda should be.Regarding enlargement: my group is deeply committed to that process but I would say to the Commission – and I say it also to this House and to Mr Solana – that we really need to focus quality time and attention on Cyprus. It is not simply the acquis communautaire – they are doing very well on that. It is not simply their ability to implement the acquis – they can deliver on that. Yet surrounding it are grave and serious political issues that are not getting the quality time and attention that we believe they need if this is to be a success.On the legislative programme: as regards its form I am glad it is going to the committees within the House. I am glad we get a chance to reflect on it and to look at the priorities. Mr Prodi has said that it is not simply an assembly of disparate ideas and indeed he has offered some priorities here. But I have looked at it. It is 49 pages of high-density non-communication. It is 49 pages covering 593 different initiatives. It is very difficult to find in this methodology which are the real priorities, where there is political passion and focus, and which are merely the issues that we have to deal with because they are part of due process. We have to move away from this.(Applause)We have to change the way we do our business. I would hope that next September we will have something where each initiative, in methodological terms, is justified. I do not mean that everything here is not justified – but tell us the story. Maybe we asked for some initiatives but, on reflection, we would say that they are not such a priority after all. How much of this came from the European Council inviting the Commission to take initiatives? We do not find the answers in here. I would like to see them. It is not a question of interfering with the Commission's right of initiative in relation to the treaties, but a question of quality control.If I could say one last thing, it seems to me it would be very useful if we did this next September and completed the debate by December and that you, Madam President, as President of this institution, and Mr Prodi, as President of the European Commission, could go to the European Council and tell them ex ante: this is our priority for Europe. Is it yours? That is how we need to do our business, to put a drive, a focus and an energy behind it.Finally on Nice – on après-Nice – just to make a point. We in the European Parliament should be involved in encouraging a wide and open debate as a prelude to a full institutional participation après-Laeken. My group would insist in the post-Laeken period on some convention-style method with deep involvement for the European Parliament and the national parliaments to include the active engagement of Council.(Applause)
Mr President, Commissioner, President-in-Office of the Council, I am on this occasion to express an opinion on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party. In my previous speech, I spoke mainly on my own behalf as rapporteur. The difference is, in itself, marginal. I am all in favour of decentralisation and like to see things done on a small scale, but I want to say to my esteemed fellow MEPs that globalisation is on the way for agriculture too. It does not help to bury one’s head, ostrich-like, in the sand and say that we have not noticed anything and that we do not wish to change anything. When I listen to my fellow MEPs, I find that many of them are in actual fact behaving like the proverbial ostrich. What is odd is that, in this Assembly, people appear to be more conservative the further to the left they are.I should like to make a comment on the Commissioner’s view regarding multifunctionality and sustainability. As those of us in the  Group have said, it is important and a matter of urgency that we should in the long term deregulate agricultural policy, but now it is very important, in the near future, to guarantee aid to a form of agriculture that is multifunctional and sustainable. That is something with which we agree. We are trying to change the systems so that we have something to fall back on, the world being as it is.Mr President, I wish of course to thank everyone for all the work that has been done. It is fantastic that we coped successfully with all these amendments in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. As representative of my group, I also want to say that we support the compromise in Mr Cunha’s report. We support it because it is in favour of the principle of decoupling. That is important, and even if we do not go the whole hog, we shall nonetheless make a little progress.To the President-in-Office of the Council, I wish to say that, if now we have taken a decision, I regret that we do not also have the right of co-decision. I nonetheless think that the Council and the President-in-Office of the Council must make use of the opportunity that does in actual fact exist, not completely to fall in with Parliament but to go a step further. If you do that, you will in any case serve my, and perhaps also the Commission’s, interests rather better.
Mr President, first of all I would be grateful if Commissioner Diamantopoulou would convey to Commissioner de Palacio my personal thanks for the work that I know the Commissioner has already undertaken in this regard.Coming from one of the more remote parts of Europe, namely Scotland, it is so important for us to be connected with the centre. The problems we face at the moment are acute. I refer to exports and the logistical problems that are being created, as well as the problems for the rail freight companies generally.What is an acute problem could, if matters are not dealt with properly, become a chronic one. Commissioner Diamantopoulou has already referred to the fact that what is happening with the Channel Tunnel is counterproductive to the policy which we all want to see pursued, namely that of getting freight on to the railways and off the roads.Given the present situation within the United Kingdom, the difficulties that it has in exporting and the railways there, and looking to the future of the whole transport policy of the European Union, I sincerely hope that as much pressure as possible can be brought to bear from all quarters to get this problem resolved as quickly as possible.
This is what I call harassment in the workplace. I cannot speak without people smoking behind me and that gives me an asthma attack and that is harassment. I congratulate Mr Andersson on his report. It is important for action at both national and European level because, as we have heard, 12 million people are harassed or bullied in the workplace every year. There are many forms of harassment and as I said, smoking in the workplace in no-smoking areas is a form of harassment. It can also have devastating effects, both physically and pyschologically. The level of stress caused by bullying and harassment in a workplace is tremendous. Disabled people, women and in particular, ethnic minorities, suffer a great deal. They can be doubly discriminated against and are harassed simply because they come from those disadvantaged, discriminated groups.I am also glad that Mr Andersson referred to those on short-term contracts because again we have evidence that those too, are bullied. But can I turn quickly to the reason for the split votes that the  has asked for on paragraphs 8 and 13. I believe that it is a role of the European Union to have common guidelines, best practice and benchmarking across the Member States, but I do not believe that we need more binding legislation: that is a role for the Member States and a question of subsidiarity. So although I agree with much of Mr Andersson's report, I disagree with the fact that we should have binding legislation and that is why we have called for the split vote.
Mr President, Commissioner, the communication under discussion forms an important introduction to closer cooperation in the field of research. As things are now, resources are wasted due to overlapping and lack of coordination. On behalf of theGroup, I wish to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Plooij-Van Gorsel, for a good report and for her extremely enthusiastic work for this cause: your views have the full support of my Group.The statistics indicated in the communication regarding the poor level of investment by EU countries in research are cause for concern. Even worse is the fact that the gap with respect to the USA is widening. However, some Member States have made considerable investments in research, and this appears to have paid dividends, particularly in the area of information technology.While I have the floor, I would like to bring up a few additional points. I would prefer to talk about cooperation or strategy, rather than research policy. The word policy has a connotation of activities being closely controlled by Brussels. In research, however, objectives for activities should not be defined at too detailed a level. Each research community is best aware of its own needs for investment and development – these should not be too tightly controlled by policy. The participation of women in scientific research within the EU continues to be too fragmented. More tangible action must be incorporated in the programmes in order to promote this participation. Researcher exchange programmes and interaction between research teams are matters which deserve our full support. They are a means of disseminating information and skills; these activities will create true European cooperation – networks which will also bear fruit later on. The COST secretariat has already produced some commendable work. Its position as research coordinator should be further strengthened.
Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking the shadow rapporteurs from the other parties for cooperating so well on this report. I think it is to be welcomed that we can muster a broad majority for a proposal that extends Parliament’s earlier decisions. By means of this proposal, we are establishing the framework for the EU’s employment policy over the next five years. Employment policy is based, of course, upon what we call open coordination which, most recently at the Lisbon Summit, has been highlighted as a method that may be used within many other areas of policy. Open coordination means that countries may use different methods of achieving common goals. And the common goal in this case is higher employment. What we have here are recommended guidelines for the policies of the Member States. Countries must report on what they are doing to make the unemployed better able to meet the demands of the labour market. Encouragement must be given to the spirit of enterprise and to flexibility in the labour market, and countries must work to promote a better relationship between work and family life.This reporting, carried out by the Member States every year, therefore forms the point of departure for the Commission’s annual report on employment in the EU which, together with the Commission’s analyses and statistics concerning development, forms the basis for the Council’s recommendation to the individual countries. The process is open. There is a free choice of policy, and if a country goes down a markedly different path than the one recommended, it can be criticised, but nothing more. Is the process too informal, then? A whole lot of reports, meetings and conferences and a whole lot of words, but no certainty that the objectives will be achieved. On the surface of it, the process is indeed perhaps not formal enough. However, this policy whereby countries measure their efforts against each other and exchange experiences – benchmarking and employment of best practices, to use the modern terminology – means that a broader public gets to see which countries are doing well and which less well. To a large extent, open coordination works by becoming a subject in the public and national debate about employment policy. In those countries where youth unemployment is high, the public is bound to ask how it can be that their politicians are not achieving the same good results as politicians in other countries. Is there anything we can learn from the efforts of other countries? Transparency, understood as openness to the public, is in actual fact a very important agent in this process.We therefore want to see more focus upon providing information to the public at large and upon involving the parties in the labour market, together with local and regional authorities, to a much greater extent than is contemplated in the Commission’s proposal. Article 129 provides, of course, for the possibility of introducing pilot projects. We want an exchange of information about the ways and means of involvement at local level. This could be a pilot project. There is no question of our having new projects which mimic practices with which the Social Fund has familiarised us. It is about developing analyses, knowledge and information about the whys and wherefores of local and regional involvement in employment policy. By means of its communication concerning the role of local and regional authorities, the Commission has already made a start upon work of this kind. In this year’s Budget, Parliament too has introduced a new budget line for preparative initiatives to promote local participation in employment policy. We have done this precisely to promote a broader knowledge of European employment strategy. By including in this proposal the role of local and regional authorities in employment policy, we ensure that there is a legal basis for this initiative.When, in this way, we ask the Commission to do more work than is contemplated in the Commission’s own proposal, then appropriations must of course follow, and my report therefore proposes an increase in appropriations to EUR 65 million in contrast to the Commission’s proposal of EUR 55 million. To put it briefly, the open coordination method must be open in two senses. It must be open in the sense that countries retain the freedom to organise their own policies and that there must be a number of ways to achieve the same objectives. However, it must also be open in the sense that the general public is involved far more than it is at present. The policy on employment, or Luxembourg process, is to be commended, but why does it have to be a matter of such secrecy?
Mr President, thewould like to withdraw Amendment 32 because it has been replaced. I would like to ask for a split vote on Amendments 8, 10, 14 and 18 because that would allow us to vote for more of the amendments that Mrs Pack has put forward. In view of the very high quality debate we had this morning, that would be very helpful, but only, of course, if you would allow it.
Mr President, I regret the Commissioner has had to leave for another meeting and is not present at this discussion within Parliament’s most important body – the plenary.I would like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Oostlander, because I believe he has produced a good report. Progress has been made in Turkey, but there remain many shortcomings, above all with regard to the role of the military and respect for the minorities living in that country.The European Union must move forward and deepen, which I believe is seen as a risk by those people who want the European Union to be nothing more than a union for free trade and who see enlargement and the incorporation of other countries as way of ensuring that the European Union does not progress towards political union.I believe that Turkey must be required to comply fully with the Copenhagen criteria and make progress towards a more democratic society which treats its minorities with greater respect.
Mr President, Commissioner, the matter under discussion is very intricate and complex, and is one that will have a very far-reaching effect on the food industry. For that reason, I wish to thank the rapporteur: we are grateful to you for your excellent work. In the main this report can be adopted.I would, however, like to draw attention to one point, and that is Amendment No 15. There are Member States where processing is on a very small scale. The requirement, therefore, that different categories of activity should have a separate building is unreasonable as far as these countries are concerned. For example, in my own country we have two plants, both of which already have clearly separate and properly supervised production lines. If we were to find ourselves in a situation where we had to construct separate buildings for one more separate production line that would be unreasonable considering the small volumes being processed. In my opinion the issues mentioned previously in the Council’s formulation have been taken proper account of, and I would hope the Council’s and the Commission’s position will enter into force with regard to this matter.
Mr President, as we look at the world's environmental problems, some of them, such as the loss of habitats and biodiversity, seem to leave us powerless of achieving any solution. But it is not all gloom and doom, and within Europe, we are capable of banning the use of chemicals which are toxic, persistent and bio-accumulative and using science to develop safer alternatives, and this directive is good news for that reason.The Water Framework Directive was my first experience of the dynamics of the conciliation process between Parliament and the Council with the assistance of the Commission, and I think that Parliament can claim credit for introducing the category of priority hazardous substances which this Directive now puts into practice, but it is indeed a first step on a long road. I know the Commissioner has herself many times referred to the sheer number of chemicals still being developed and being put on the market, and suspicion is attached to many substances, not identified as yet, and the process of identification and elimination needs to progress rapidly.Can I refer in concluding to the institutional relationship? The Presidency has indicated to group spokesmen that it would like to fast-track this process and see a rapid resolution, and I think that is welcomed by all parties. We would obviously like to see action sooner rather than later, but hastily arranged meetings with no time for proper discussion and coordination between parties are not the best way of making laws or securing agreement so I hope we succeed and are able to achieve a vote today which the Council can endorse within a matter of weeks rather than years; but if we do, I suspect that it will be more a matter of luck than design, and I hope we can bear this in mind if we are able to work together with the other institutions of the European Union and achieve progress more effectively and rapidly in future years.
Mr President, this has undoubtedly been a good debate between the institutions and 2003 will be an important year against the backdrop of enlargement. We must ensure the good functioning of the Union for our citizens present and future. That applies very much to the process of how we legislate, how we implement legislation and how we enforce legislation. The debate has been very wide-ranging debate as regards how we legislate in this process. However, I could not help thinking while listening to the many detailed questions that we have heard that perhaps more of what I and my colleagues have been dealing with could have been dealt with at an earlier stage in the Committees, to give us a more strategic debate here today.On behalf of my group, I welcome the emphasis on impact assessments and the emphasis on involvement of our citizens and transparency. That has to be the right way forward. I would raise some concerns about the Commission's powers of enforcement in terms of infringement proceedings as we move towards enlargement. We must make sure that sufficient resources and measures are available in this respect.The same goes for the Court. The Court has to be fully resourced in order to carry out its tasks in the difficult times that lie ahead. We have had a good debate, a good exchange, but I still am left wondering whether it has truly been the strategic debate that should have engaged all of this House and our citizens outside. We have done well but we could still do a lot better.
Madam President, I would like to ask the Commissioner a question. He said that the only problem for a couple in a registered partnership was when one of them was a foreign national. If they are both EU nationals, under Article 18, they could both independently move to another State. That is true, but what they lose is the status of registered partnership and the tax or social rights that go with that - for instance, the right to be recognised as next of kin if one of them is in hospital. His answer does not address that issue.It is not just an immigration question, it is also a question of recognition as a family. I do not think he can just get around that, and I believe the mutual recognition argument has strong force, as in other sectors like criminal law.
Mr President, the decisions made at the Helsinki European Council on the development of a common security and defence policy are open to interpretation. Many aligned countries believe that the formation of a common military force would mean the start of a common defence arrangement. Their plans are clear. Under the treaties, the aim of a common foreign and security policy for the Union is to safeguard its independence and integrity, as well as strengthen its security in all its forms. The military force to be established is, in their view, a tool to realise these aims: a common army for a Union that is becoming a federation. In the opinion of the non-aligned Member States, only the creation of a system for crisis management has been decided upon. They stress that each country should decide separately on its involvement. They believe that they have no obligation to become involved in enforcing peace. Non-aligned Member States do not want the Union to become a military alliance or military superpower. These differences of opinion and interpretation must be taken into account.It is also wise in security policy to establish differentiated integration. Combined troops of the European Union should only be used for crisis management. Countries which are part of the federal core, as proposed by Messrs Delors, Giscard d’Estaing, Schmidt and Fischer, could create a defence community, to form a strong European pillar within the context of NATO. The understandable and commendable aim by the European NATO countries to develop a European defence identity should thus be realised within the context of NATO itself. Decisions relating to security and defence policy are immensely important, and should therefore be made with the emphasis on openness and democracy.
Madam President, I would like to explain the votes on behalf of the  Group. Our overriding objective was to get this very important report through as the first report communitarising European Community immigration laws and as a matter of justice to third-country nationals. We have therefore shown solidarity with other like-minded groups and Members. We supported the Socialist Group amendments to remove beneficiaries of subsidiary protection in the light of the Commissioner's pledge to bring forward a proposal covering them as well as beneficiaries of temporary protection.We would have preferred beneficiaries of subsidiary protection to stay in as a matter of principle, because they are long-term legal residents, but we decided to assist the passage of the report. Similarly, we abstained on matters concerning ascending relatives, because, wherever possible, we wish to remove objections so as to secure a clear majority for the report and recognise that the inclusion of such relatives raises particular problems for some Members. Some of us in my group, however, would have liked us to express a more generous stance. Mrs Malmström and Mrs van der Laan have asked me specifically to mention them in this connection.My group has deliberately voted to include unmarried partners if the Member State concerned legally recognises such partnerships, as I think three currently do. We think it to be only justice not to interfere with a domestic decision on legal recognition of such partnerships.
Mr President, I wish to address my remarks to Mrs Thyssen's report, which I welcome, and I congratulate her on such a balanced piece of work. We know well the dilemma in dealing with a report that has to straddle the interests of business and consumers.We have before us very good innovative ideas from the Commission – an overarching policy, a framework directive – something we need if we are really to make the internal market work and to make a success of eEurope. However, to achieve all of that we have to build confidence in our consumers. The one area that concerns me is in paragraph 17 of the report, which I endorse completely. It concerns this linkage between codes of conduct, legal certainty and enforcement and how we get those three to really work together to protect consumers.This year I shall be drafting a report on the monitoring of Community law and therefore feel very passionately that in moving to codes of conduct we have to ensure we still have legal certainty and enforceability or we fragment the very gains we have made in the internal market.I shall try to illustrate that with an example. Yesterday I received a letter from a constituent who had bought a property in another Member State. Something had gone wrong with the purchase: money had been wrongly deducted from money he had handed over. He applied to the appropriate overarching professional body. He wrote in his own language, English. He received a reply in their language that stated that they were unable to deal with his complaint unless he wrote to them in their language. If we really want to do business across Europe together we have to be fair and reasonable with one another. Codes of conduct have to be properly enforced.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, having started in April 1997, we have now reached the third reading of the Resale Rights Directive. I should like to take this opportunity to thank the members of the conciliation committee and Mr Zimmerling for their efforts. But unfortunately, I shall have to adhere to my old point of view. The vast majority of my group are still not happy with the proposal. We are concerned here with the difference between the English term ‘copyright’ and the Dutch word ‘auteursrecht’, for what is at issue here is the sale of a work of art.Should an artist’s heir be able to exercise his or her rights seventy years after the event? I do not think so. A sale implies that all rights and duties are waived, and that is what the financial compensation is for.The suggestion to increase the minimum price to EUR 3 000 is an improvement. Anything lower would seriously hamper budding artists.This brings me to my next point of criticism. Our main objection to this proposal is that it is diametrically opposed to the principle of subsidiarity. The Commission has been unable to demonstrate that discrepancies in legislation in the Member States will, in the long run, have a direct, negative impact on the internal market. Furthermore, it is quite likely that the European modern and contemporary art market, which is of particular significance for London, will be moved to Switzerland. This was, in fact, already evident a few weeks ago at the Basel Art Fair. The art market could, in fact, move outside Europe altogether, where this right does not exist. Surely that cannot be the aim of the exercise. It appears from the proposal that that is a problem. Provision is made for all kinds of unnecessary exceptions. Harmonisation has therefore gone out of the window. Is it not a contradiction in terms that, whilst attempts are being made to harmonise resale rights worldwide, the opportunity is being created for the Member States to abandon the minimum price at will via all kinds of loopholes?Then there is implementation. In addition to the red tape which is involved in keeping track of the different sales and purchases of a work of art, exceptions complicate the matter even further. Artists do not welcome this either. If the sale takes place between private persons, resale rights do not apply. Would you not agree with me that the trade in art between private persons will experience a dramatic upsurge? That is not the only example I could quote.Finally, the directive does not offer all artists the same treatment, except in the case of sales via galleries and auction houses. The directive is unclear and is not fraud-proof. It is also superfluous, for there is no distortion within the internal market.My group does not welcome legislation of this kind. The citizen experiences this, in fact, as unnecessary interference from Brussels. My group has voted against it twice. It deems the changes and improvements in respect of the proposal to be insufficient and will therefore be voting against it for the third time.
chairman of the Committee on Citizens' Freedom and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs. – We will hear statements by the Commission and Council presidency tomorrow on the interception of communications. It is a sensitive subject. It is one where the powers of the Union are strictly circumscribed and the major political groups have not wished to take a position until they have heard the Council and the Commission.So we are asking that the vote be postponed to the April part-session and that the deadline for putting down motions under Rule 37 of our Rules be re-opened to allow the committee eventually to table a motion on this issue. The item is on the agenda of our next committee meeting.
Mr President, the tone of the debate in this House is clear: most of us want to assist the Irish presidency to reach a quick settlement on the Constitution through our political contacts, and with our experience of these questions we can provide both practical and moral support. The scheduling of the work of the IGC is extremely important because, if it is scheduled and programmed properly, pressure will grow on the Member States to take more seriously their collective duty to provide leadership for the European Union. Why not pencil into the calendar an IGC summit meeting before 1 May?The manner in which the new Commission President is chosen will serve as a further way of restoring political faith in Europe. This is a function of the presidency on which the Taoiseach was curiously discreet. How that person is chosen will be a factor in the fight to restore and strengthen the political authority of the Commission. It is not simply a question of finding a single candidate. All the party political groups should find their own champion, and the procedure provided for by the Convention could easily and simply be brought into early use by us all in June and July.
Mr President, I thank Mr Cashman for his assiduous and inspired work in committee. Freedom of information and a culture of open and transparent administration are powerful tools for better government and for rooting out corruption and malpractice.Since it was Mr Prodi who presented proposals to us in January, we had hoped he would be here to reply to this debate. Indeed the Commission has maintained a curious silence throughout our deliberations, but we look forward to the Commissioner's remarks this morning.Mr Solana in the Council has made an audacious bid to be crowned the prince of darkness. But once this report is voted on today, Parliament will stand ready to negotiate with the Commission and the Council a code which will cause citizens to blink in the bright Strasbourg sunshine. Publication must be our presumption and the onus placed squarely on those who seek to withhold it. It is grotesque that in the European Union national governments make public policy behind a heavy curtain of secrecy. The freedom of information act foreseen in Article 255 will rip it asunder.
Mr President, Commissioner, the action taken by the Commission and Ecofin against Ireland was hasty and excessive. It has damaged the EU and EMU – not just in Ireland, as has been pointed out previously. It has put additional wind into the sails of the opponents of EMU in the countries outside the euro zone. 'That is how much the national freedom to determine one’s own financial and tax policy is worth,’ the opponents of EMU in my homeland cheerfully chuckle. You will no doubt soon hear Herman Schmid express something similar.There is an alarming tendency towards complete centralisation within the Euroland countries. The relative weakness of the euro against the dollar seems to have triggered a number of excessive reactions. Obviously, there is a common monetary policy, but financial, budgetary and tax policy must not and cannot be managed in detail from Brussels.EMU is an instrument for increasing the economic strength of Europe and therefore a certain amount of acceptance is required of the fact that all euro zone countries do not move at exactly the same rate simultaneously. The next time that we get a case like Ireland’s, I hope, Commissioner, that the Commission will think carefully first. EMU must not become a straightjacket for Europe.
Mr President, firstly I should like to thank the rapporteurs for the budget, Göran Färm and Per Stenmarck, for their thorough and constructive work. I should likewise like to thank the Chairman of the Committee on Budgets, Terence Wynn. I also want to thank Denmark, as the country holding the presidency, for its excellent levels of cooperation, as well as Commissioner Michaele Schreyer. The draft budget meets most of the demands of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party. It is thrifty and rigorous, and the payment appropriations account for just 1.04% of GNP, while 1.08% has been provided in the financial perspective for expenditure. There is therefore a margin of more than EUR 3 billion in the budget.The draft budget now before us is also available in the form of an activity-based budget. This has to do with the Commission’s administrative reform. The Financial Regulation has been undergoing reforms that will come into effect from the start of next year. This entails a revision of the staff regulations, which Parliament is now debating. This is a complete package of reforms intended to boost administrative efficiency, promote the downward delegation of authority, and clarify personal accountability. These are objectives our group wholeheartedly supports.The undoubted focus of the budget is enlargement. This budget will probably be the last to be drafted for a Union of 15 Member States. There is provision in it for some very important appropriations. The Committee on Budgets is proposing an extra EUR 699 million in pre-accession aid for the candidate countries to make it easier for them to face the challenges of membership.The problem regarding administrative appropriations is insufficient margin for manoeuvre under heading 5. For that reason, the different institutions have started gathering funds out of this year’s budget to be able to pay the costs of accession in advance. For example, Parliament intends to lend the Commission EUR 43 million and the Council EUR 18 million. In other words, levels of cooperation have been exemplary, and my sincerest thanks for that go especially to the rapporteur for the budget, Per Stenmarck.The most serious problem in administering the EU budget is outstanding commitments and unused payment appropriations. Outstanding commitments now amount to around EUR 107 billion, or more than the EU’s total budget for one year. The reason for this is the under-utilisation of payment appropriations. This particularly concerns the Structural Funds and external actions. Last year EUR 18 billion in payment appropriations remained unspent and the figure for the previous year was EUR 11 billion. Under-utilisation on this scale seriously undermines the entire administrative process with regard to the EU budget. In the spring outstanding commitments under the Structural Funds reached EUR 80 billion. Despite this, though, the Council reduced the amount in payment appropriations that was proposed by the Commission. That is why the Committee on Budgets increased payments by more than a billion euros.Our group is calling for a dramatic simplification in the administration of the Structural Funds. With these comments we are prepared to give the draft budget our support.
Mr President, I would like to draw attention to the complete disarray regarding free movement of citizens from the new Member States. It now seems – but it is by no means certain – that, with a mere 11 weeks to go until 1 May, 13 Member States will take advantage of the facility to put obstacles in the way of free movement. This has led to a spotlight on the two remaining states – Ireland and the United Kingdom – and to hysterical press reactions about being swamped by benefit tourists. I hold no brief for the way the British press is reacting, nor for the rather uncertain reaction of the United Kingdom Government, but I believe that the original decision to allow full free movement was and is economically, politically and morally right.Commission forecasts show that maybe every year there would have been one mobile worker from the East for every 1000 inhabitants in the West, if it had been shared among all states. There may have been some justification for special measures in border areas, but the way this panic has spread and infected most Member States is shameful. It treats the new Member State citizens as second class, contrary to all the promises they were given, and it displays – as on so many other issues such as Iraq, the Constitution and the budget – a depressing lack of EU solidarity. Could you at least raise this with the Commission and Member States in the Council to try and make the transitional periods as brief as possible?
Mr President, one of the biggest gaps in the anti-money laundering regime has been that it only applied to financial institutions. As successive international reports have made clear, lawyers and other professionals become vulnerable to exploitation as unwitting accomplices in the washing of dirty money from criminals and terrorists as banks tighten up, which, I am glad to say, they are at last having to do.I regard the outcome of the conciliation on this directive as satisfactory if it is interpreted in a common sense way. That means that lawyers, accountants and tax advisers must, outside a strict definition of legal privilege, report transactions that are suspicious, in other words, that they have reason to believe their client is involved in money laundering. This is the only feasible interpretation.There has been a huge amount of hype on this directive aimed at protecting lawyers' vested interests and not, I am afraid to say, individual rights. This has delayed the finalisation of the directive for an unnecessary six months. Parliament has not exactly covered itself with glory.I hope all Member States will declare that they have no intention of invoking the option to exempt lawyers from the ban on tipping off clients that the authorities have been alerted. We need to make sure that our legal and financial systems are not exploited, rather than concentrating on the position of the lawyers themselves and their own self-interest.
Mr President, I just want to clarify that the bomb attack against Mr Anastasiadis was not carried out for political motives but because of comments he made after a football game.
Mr President, could you please pass this message on to the authorities in Azerbaijan. That would be very useful because they listen to us in Europe – they want to be a part of Europe.
Mr President, I have two concerns about paragraph 6 of Mr Cunha's report, on which I congratulate him as a whole.First of all, the automatic reduction in quotas for Member States in breach. My concern is that the effect of this is actually to impose the sanctions in the wrong place. If we reduce quotas, it is fishermen and their livelihood that will suffer. It is simply contrary to the principles of justice to punish some people for the faults of others.My second concern is with the reference to the relative stability principle. In my view, the argument that the paragraph does undermine that principle is a compelling one. As it stands, there is a reference to an automatic reduction of quotas with no specification as to extent or time-limits. This could lead to a major erosion of traditional fishing rights. It is very different from the reduction in the case of over­fishing, which simply restores the balance. I am aware of the amendment that suggests that the reduction should simply be a temporary one, but I think it would be far safer to take out the references to quotas and the relative stability principle altogether. I accept entirely that we need serious and effective penalties but please let us make sure that they respect the principles of the common fisheries policy and fall on those who deserve them.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, before I make my comments, I should like to extend warm thanks to the rapporteur, Mr Perry, for his sterling report. It is an important directive, and thanks to the Commission's regular reports, we are gaining a clear insight into its functioning, which enables us to prepare well-considered proposals for a possible revision in future. I do have some remarks.First of all, given the current increase in media convergence, both in the present Member States and in the acceding countries, we must continue to hammer away at pluriformity, both in the public broadcasting corporations and in the private stations. This is crucial to my group, and I assume my fellow Liberal will also stress this in a moment.Secondly, sound criteria are needed to protect minors from aggressive TV commercials. In fact, with regard to television programmes too, it is important for children to be able to make informed choices and for their parents to be able to help them in this. My group is a great believer in self-regulation, which gives me an opportunity to stand up for the Dutch system, ‘Kijkwijze’, which enables parents and children to make informed choices by means of pictograms.Finally, I should like to say how pleased I am by the wide support given to my proposal for a pan-European children's network. It is a good way of distributing European productions for children on a larger scale, since it combines broadcasting licence-holders from the Member States and candidate countries. Excellent children's films have been made in Europe. If we now see that in my country, the national production of quality films has enjoyed an enormous boost, which is what I read the morning of the day we returned from the film festival in Venice, that the proportion of Dutch films among those seen by cinema audiences has increased by some 6%, and especially audiences composed of young people, due to an innovative approach whose key aim is to show producers that they are making films for a certain audience – an audience-specific approach, in other words – then I can only be optimistic about the preservation of our cultural diversity in the media, and there is certainly a place for television without frontiers, and, needless to say, for Europe.
Mr President, I will just take as read my group's support for the Lamfalussy report and for the reasoning in it. I want to come to the nub of the issue here before us. I am not reassured by the assurances of the Council and the Commission that we in Parliament are fully looked after in this process. Of course, we must respect the treaties. Of course, we must understand the difference between primary law and secondary legislation as referred to in Lamfalussy. And of course, we have as a potential point of departure the June 1999 interinstitutional agreement on comitology.We stand at a special moment where we can seize an opportunity as institutions together to creatively pursue something that we have failed miserably to do so far. There is a long list of blockages noted by Lamfalussy and they are primarily the blockages of the Council of Ministers. There is a long list of failures to implement and they are primarily a responsibility for the Commission as guardian of the Treaty to enforce. There is no point in going back to the past when we can seize this moment to create a much better future without delay in terms of a single financial market.Yes, we have rights in the primary legislation. We have the right, as has been said, to define the scope of the legislation and of the derogated powers to the regulators and securities committees. But there is a feedback system in this. Will we give them a millimetre or a metre? A metre or a kilometre? I will tell you – we will dole it out in accordance with our view of its democratic scrutiny, its balance, its parallelism between the legislative institutions and its accountability. If you want speed and substance, if you want, Commissioner and Council, the flexibility to give tomorrow's solutions to tomorrow's problems, and not to yesterday's problems, then we need to give these committees a wide latitude but be able to call back, if necessary, on reflection. No callback – no wide latitude. We have a big choice to make. What are we pursuing here? It is not simply a closed loop. In the primary round we get to decide how wide is the secondary discretion and how wide it will be. It will partly depend on how open and democratic is it and how balanced it is in terms of the two legislative arms of this Union.Let me turn to the bit of the debate that has not mentioned its name. Even as the Council sits here and – if I might say even with due deference to all the politeness of the Minister – throws the book at us and says, 'There is a treaty; there is a procedure. We will inform you, we will send you the minutes, but otherwise please go away,' I do not accept that message. I want to know from the Council as you give us that message why do you or at least some Member States go through the back door and use annexes, attached for other reasons on sensitive issues, to the June 1999 decision and make up new comitology rules for yourselves to jump from qualified majority de facto to simply majority as leverage on the European Commission. This is not acceptable. There should be not two rules but one rule, one democracy, one openness.(Applause)
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur on behalf of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, I would like to congratulate both rapporteurs on their report and I would also like to thank them for the pleasant cooperation.I would like to raise two points. Firstly, my Committee is of the opinion that in the field of trade policy, the European Community’s authority and also, therefore, the European Commission’s negotiating mandate must be reinforced. So too, however, must be the role of Parliament. This can be done a) by introducing codecision for the common trade policy, b) by introducing an assent procedure for all external agreements and c) by according Parliament a greater role in approving and monitoring trade negotiations.My second point concerns energy. The Commission has concluded that a coherent European energy policy has been lacking in the past. There are no clear guidelines on institutional mechanisms for defining a common energy policy, let alone cooperation to guarantee the supply of energy or in terms of the environmental aspects of energy policy. With a view to sustainable development, a new chapter on energy policy must be included in the Treaty, as well as the relevant sections of the ECSC and EURATOM Treaties. In addition, the European Parliament powers must be adequately enhanced. This means that the codecision procedure needs to apply to the EURATOM Treaty too. It will specifically need to apply to the drafting of minimum safety standards for the design, construction and operation of nuclear reactors within the Union. So far, the Member States have had their own technical standards and regulations. In the light of Central and Eastern countries joining the EU, it is vital that uniform, European safety standards for nuclear reactors be drafted. Unfortunately, my proposal to this effect has not been included in the current report. I would therefore urge you most emphatically to vote for Amendment No 60 which I have tabled on behalf of my group, so that uniform safety standards can be drawn up for nuclear reactors. We owe this to our citizens.
Mr President, it has to be said, the European Parliament has been divided over the drugs policy for years. By and large, there are three shades of opinion discernible in this House. Firstly, the followers of the Swedish model which, apart from treating drug addicts, emphasises the control of narcotics. Secondly, there are the followers of the Dutch model, which tends more towards the treatment of drug addicts than control. The Dutch model which allows drug shops, which in the Netherlands are given the unfortunate English term “coffee shops”, presupposes a division between soft drugs, namely marihuana, and hard drugs, such as heroin and ecstasy.These two groups, the followers of the Swedish model and those of the Dutch model, do not want too much European cooperation in this field because they fear that their national policy might be affected. Alongside these two groups, there is a third trend represented in this Parliament, namely those who do advocate more extensive and intensive European cooperation in the drugs policy, so that the various approaches which I have described above can grow towards each other. This means that countries like France and Germany should do more to treat their drug addicts but that a country like the Netherlands, for example, should focus on controlling the drugs nuisance created by the “coffee shops” and on drugs tourism.These three trends are also represented in the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party. I am therefore pleased to say that most of my group colleagues can vote in favour of Mrs Giannakou’s report. We find it an interesting report which fortunately disregards the issue of legalising narcotics and looks at the measures to be taken by the European Union.On 6 November last, the President of the Commission, Mr Prodi, advocated stronger European cooperation in the field of drug control. He did this further to reports of Italian youngsters using ecstasy which largely originated from my country, the Netherlands. Mr Prodi’s remarks caused a huge commotion in the Netherlands. I personally agree with Mr Prodi. If the European Union is intent on dealing with transnational crime forcefully, then this should also include the control of drug trafficking. In fact, that is Europol’s first task. Ecstasy is a hard drug which is lethal, as recent events in Italy have shown.Those supporting the legalisation of soft drugs should also be open to European cooperation. Indeed, a Member State could not legalise drugs on its own, this could only be done at European level.
Mr President, firstly I wish to thank Commissioners Schreyer and Kinnock for their successful reform of the Commission and the reshaping of the Financial Regulation connected with it. They create a basis for the clarification of personal accountability, taking responsibility and the creation of activity-based budgeting and management.This budget is in fact the first activity-based budget. How to improve activity-based management is a continual challenge. The objective must be that the different policy areas be given room for manoeuvre in creating the most efficient administrative structure possible. This means that in the future we can very likely abandon the practice where Parliament decides separately on the establishment of a post or changes to it. Parliament will only decide how much money is available in a particular administrative area. This may then itself decide on the creation of the most appropriate administrative structure.In the future, defining and bearing personal responsibility will be of key importance, because activity-based budgeting and management lead to the downward delegation of power of decision. As regards financial management, we have to be able to establish exactly what we require of the careful management of finances.Different organisations and NGOs make up their own areas of specialisation, which the European Parliament has given its support to. These ‘earmarked’ A-30 budget lines have been the budget’s bugbear. To be honest, access to them on the part of organisations has been on an arbitrary basis. Often the European dimension to these organisations has not been any better off than that of hundreds of other organisations that have been operating without support. Now a legal basis is being established for the system and the question of assistance is to be for the Commission to decide. This measure must be implemented as soon as possible.
Madam President, as Mr Rapkay said, we can talk to each other as we are used to doing now that we are gathered ‘in the bosom of our family’. I would first of all say thank you again to Mr Monti for the great efforts he has made in this area, and I would also thank Mr Rapkay very much. We do not always agree, but I am very pleased with the report, even if there are a number of things we have to discuss regarding how we are to vote tomorrow.There are also a couple of practical matters I should like to comment on, first of all a matter on which I myself have done some work, namely the Commission’s proposal concerning the shipyards package. We had a debate on this here in Parliament last autumn. I was very much against the proposed aid to shipyards, and I therefore want to ask the Commission how this matter is progressing. I was delighted to note that, at the Council meeting of Trade and Industry Ministers at the beginning of December, it was impossible to obtain the necessary majority for adopting the Commission’s proposal. The Commission was not immediately willing to alter its proposal, which was based upon the results worked out in what is known as the TBR report, drawn up by the Commission every six months. Naturally, I am concerned that the Commission’s next TBR report will conveniently demonstrate that we need aid for more types of ship than those cited in the Commission’s original proposal. I would therefore ask Commissioner Monti to answer the following question: is there a new TBR report on the way from the Commission and, if so, can the Commissioner then inform us as to what conclusions are to be drawn by it?Tomorrow, we in Parliament will vote on a proposal we did not have time to discuss before the vote. It is most certainly a proposal that does not fall within your area, Mr Monti, for it concerns the fact that, quite extraordinarily, the airlines have been allowed to retain airport arrival and departure times which, under normal rules, they have made too little use of to be permitted to retain. We are, then, preparing special legislation which we are now rushing through and which will, of course, mean that smaller airlines that wish to enter the market with competitive prices will not be allowed to offer this service to us as consumers, who shall instead have to put up with airlines which do not deliver the goods and which – when they do deliver them – only do so at unduly high prices. That is also the reality where state aid is concerned, for it largely favours the old national companies with their monopolies. For me, that is an example of the way in which our fine words about cutting back on state aid are all too infrequently followed up by firm and practical action. I would therefore also permit myself to ask you a question, Mr Monti. How does this proposal fit in with our general desire to cut back on state aid and create a situation in which we can all compete fairly and on an equal basis?
Madam President, firstly I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their excellent reports. Enlargement is a huge political and historical event but it is also the biggest objective regarding development cooperation the Member States have ever committed themselves to. For that reason its success requires mutual cooperation and trust.The Commission’s proposals on financing enlargement are realistic and even rather shrewd. The new Member States need support; the principle whereby they immediately become net beneficiaries is the correct one, as it takes into consideration their solvency rating. Likewise, there is no intention to reduce the income of farmers in the new Member States but put it on a growth track. It is just as clear, however, that the financial burden of the present Member States cannot be suddenly increased. For that reason, phased-in implementation is the right way to proceed.I wish to draw attention to one matter. The new Member States are attractive agricultural countries in terms of their natural conditions. The price of land is low in these countries. Rates of pay are 10 – 20% of the EU average, and the EU is furthermore intending to support up to 80% of investments in association with the Member State in question. For that reason my question relates to family farming. Does the EU intend to support industrial agriculture in the same way as family farming or is the intention to implement aid and modulations in one form or another that decrease with size?
Mr President, first of all, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his considerable efforts, even though he and I are definitely not in agreement. I am, however, very pleased about the discussions to which this report has led, with their focus upon a list of important issues concerning services of general interest. It has been a refreshing political discussion, reflecting the political differences in this House.On behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, I should like to express support for the report, as adopted by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. For the  Group, it is important to emphasise that the liberalisation already implemented by a range of sectors has generally been a great success. It has meant the creation of approximately one million new jobs and, in particular, better service for less money. At the same time, the issue of whether or not Parliament should demand a framework directive has been of crucial importance to theGroup’s support for the present report. I should like to emphasise that theGroup does not support a framework directive.The purpose of a horizontal directive would be to freeze a number of areas which, as we know by experience, develop the whole time. There is absolutely no need for this at a time when we in Europe are already lagging behind with economic reforms. On the contrary, we should support further liberalisation, but on equal conditions. This must, however, take place via sectoral directives of the kind of which very successful use is already being made in a number of sectors.In the  Group, we are, as I say, convinced that it will be neither possible nor desirable in a framework directive to establish any usable definitions of services of such different kinds as are at issue in this House, at the same time bearing in mind the large regional and national differences that exist in the area of services of general interest. We recognise, however, the doubt and uncertainty to which what is termed the Altmark judgment, concerning the funding of locally based services of general interest, has led. We therefore wholeheartedly support the Commission’s reflections concerning a legal initiative to clarify this issue. Nor, as I say, do we think, however, that a framework directive would be of any help in this context. If it were a question of a legal initiative, we should, however, greatly regret the fact that the existing Treaty does not give us in the European Parliament power of codecision concerning such an initiative.To dispel any doubt, I should like to emphasise that our opposition to a framework directive does not in any way mean that we in the  group want the duty to supply certain services of general interest to disappear. On the contrary, we believe that such a duty could easily go hand in hand with liberalisation and, for example, environmental requirements, if only the political authority were to require this. Responsibility for demanding quality lies, of course, with the political authority, which must also ensure that the demands are complied with. I want us to obtain more value for money.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioners, following the vote on the Treaty of Nice and, then, the Brussels European Council, there appear not to be any serious obstacles to enlargement. Certainly, there are a few small stones cluttering up the track, but none of them seems capable of derailing the train bound for Copenhagen.What for a long time seemed to be an ill-fated love affair between East and West became a budding romance almost exactly 13 years ago when the Iron Curtain came down and allowed the relationship to blossom fully. Now, we are just about ready for marriage and, as a liberal, I feel incredible pride at the fact that it is a liberal government that is finally blessing the union between these countries. I want to congratulate the Danish Presidency on what it has achieved so far.I should like to address three issues, Mr President-in-Office: first of all, Turkey. The resolution we shall vote on tomorrow is quite vague where Turkey is concerned. I think it is important for us to do as you did and clearly and unambiguously encourage the forces of reform in Turkey, as well as welcoming the positive signals coming from the new government in Ankara. There remains a great deal to be done before the Copenhagen criteria have been fulfilled, but I hope that the Copenhagen European Council may mean a qualitative step forwards in relations with Turkey. It is in everyone’s interests that we should have close and continuous relations with Turkey and that we help one another in the fight for increased human rights.Secondly, the safety clauses. The more I hear about these, the more confusing I think they are. How are they to be applied, and how are they to be interpreted and put into effect? Have they really been properly thought through? What we really need in the EU is a type of inspection system that comprises all the EU countries, old as well as new, in order to ensure that we all comply with the democratic values and criteria on which the EU is based: respect for human rights, non-discrimination, good governance, respect for the state governed by law etc. We know that there are Member States which do not at present fulfil the Copenhagen criteria.Thirdly and finally, it was good that a settlement was reached concerning agricultural policy, which was one of the biggest obstacles to the timetable for enlargement. In this way, the Presidency showed that the prophets of doom who condemned the Brussels European Council were wrong. The Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party would very much like, however, to have seen a clearer reform agenda with express support for Commissioner Fischler’s proposals and for the commitments we made in Doha. Agricultural policy needs to be substantially reformed.A fair amount of work remains to be done before the Copenhagen Summit. We must not underestimate the difficulties of this work. The candidate countries must subsequently hold their referendums. I hope that we can all use the run-up to 2004 to engage with people throughout the continent and explain to them, inform them about and convince them of the importance of unifying Europe, not for our sake but for theirs. It is as Jean Monnet said: ‘It is not states we are uniting, but citizens and people’.
I would like to congratulate Mrs Swiebel on her outstanding work. I also find it disappointing that 13 of the 15 Member States appear not to have honoured their obligation to report periodically on the human rights situation in their countries to the international supervisory committees set up for this purpose. As the European Union, we have to set an example, otherwise our credibility with third countries will be in jeopardy.As the chairman of the Intergroup for Regional and Minority Languages, I would like to emphasise how important the use of regional and minority languages is to people. Language forms part of our personal and cultural identity and is thus one of our fundamental rights. It is the most important means of communication between people. Encouraging the use of minority languages reinforces social cohesion at regional level. I have therefore voted in favour of paragraphs 66 and 68. It is the first step.According to Article 149 of the Treaty on European Union, the European Union’s task is to support linguistic diversity. This is not enough: we urgently need a legal basis for regional and minority languages in the Treaty.Language is an important part of our cultural heritage, and it would be a sin if regional and minority languages were to be lost on account of neglect and suppression.- Pirker report (A5-0449/2002)
Mr President, the  Group has always been quite critical in the past of the somewhat incoherent and arbitrary nature of previous annual programmes. We have always looked for two things in this programme: firstly, a clear idea of the political direction reflected in the strategic choices taken by the European Commission, and secondly, a political debate between the institutions themselves. There has certainly been some progress on those two counts this year, compared to previous years. We wish to thank the Commission for keeping to the format and timetable of the new arrangements and certainly thank the college for being present in such great numbers here today. However, as President Prodi himself said, there is still some room for improvement.The  Group would like to highlight three areas where we feel there should be further improvement. The European Commission aspires to be an EU government of sorts. Good governments make strategic choices. They set political priorities. That importantly means they explain what they are not going to do as well as what they are going to do. The concern we have is that, even in this improved document, the three priorities are so broad and open-ended that they do not really represent any meaningful political choice. This is reflected in the annexes. The annex covering the actions undertaken under the three priorities run to around 40 pages. More worryingly, the annex covering the issues which fall outside the priorities runs to 50 pages. In other words, we are faced with the prospect that the majority of the initiatives undertaken on the basis of this annual programme next year will actually fall outside the political orientation set in the annual programme altogether. That is simply not the way to proceed. Once again this resorts to a sort of laundry list approach to legislative initiative and we as a group would like to see a much greater display of choice and political orientation as regards what the European Commission proposes to do from one year to the next.The second point is the level of detail provided for each proposed legislative action. This has certainly improved compared with previous years but that was not difficult. It is still not sufficient and I would like to draw the Commission's attention to the fact that in the Convention there are proposals being floated to involve national parliaments in this debate in future. This annex is almost incomprehensible to MEPs so it would be utterly incomprehensible to MPs in national parliaments. It needs to be explained in clear, cogent, simple prose so that it is comprehensible to people living in the world that exists outside the institutions.Finally, the third point is our strong support for the Commission's stated intention of applying impact assessments to a number of pilot initiatives. We feel impact assessments are absolutely indispensable to improve the quality of European legislation but we would like to take it a step further in two important respects. Firstly, we do not feel that in the long run the Commission can be judge and jury on its own impact assessments – assessing its own draft proposals. We feel this should be done independently. Secondly, there is little point in the Commission conducting its impact assessments if parliamentary and Council amendments then escape impact assessments altogether. Therefore we would like to see an interinstitutional approach which applies impact assessments at all points of the legislative cycle.
Mr President, the obituaries for the Stability Pact have been written before and then held back as the patient lurched on, if only on life support. What we witnessed last week was finance ministers giving the last rites to rules which were intended to guarantee the long-term stability of our currency and economy.Of course, the guilty parties deny all responsibility, or claim 'the Pact is dead, long live the Pact'. But the truth is that the eurozone's two leading economies have sent a message to all the small countries in the eurozone, and to the acceding countries, which reads 'do as we say, not as we do'. And I should like to point out to Mr Tremonti that the Italian presidency has failed in its duty by acting as an associate in the endeavours of the countries concerned to flout the Pact, rather than ensuring that the rules were respected.We will pay a heavy price for the cavalier disregard of finance ministers for the rules of the Stability Pact. We will pay a price in terms of damage to the trust between Member States, in terms of lost credibility in the eyes of our citizens, and, in the long run, in terms of higher interest rates, lower growth and currency instability.Unless our leaders agree on a revised and workable framework for fiscal stability, and inscribe this in our basic law, then we are left with nothing but a broken gentlemen's agreement. Countries which gave up their currencies on the understanding that they would not be expected to pay for the debts of their neighbours have a right to demand more than that.That is why my Group welcomes the stand taken by Commissioner Solbes and the Commission's intentions to make proposals to reshape the rules. If you kill off the Pact in its existing form, you have a responsibility to commit yourself to an agreed interpretation of a set of rules to prevent a borrowing free-for-all.Liberal Democrats believe that a well-run economy and a stable currency require taxes and spending to be in balance over the course of the business cycle. The problem is not the 3% deficit limit; the problem is the failure of countries to consolidate their budgets in terms of growth.My surprise at hearing the leader of the Socialist Group in this House agree with us is matched only by my delight at his conversion. The revised rules should provide sticks and carrots to ensure that we take advantage of periods of economic growth to run budgets in balance or in surplus and reduce national debt. Countries which operate a responsible policy in the good times could benefit from more flexibility in bad times to let borrowing take the strain.These rules should provide for early action against countries which do not control their deficits in periods of growth, to force them to take corrective measures. A new target for the underlying budget balance could be added, and government expenditure on investment should also be taken into account. The European Commission should have greater authority to police these new rules, since national governments have shown that they cannot be trusted to do so.This has been a bad week for the rule of law in the European Union. My Group hopes that at the summit in Brussels our leaders will recognise their responsibility to salvage, from the wreckage of the Stability Pact, some credibility for Europe's fiscal policy .(Applause)
I should like to thank the Commissioner for the clear account, and I am of the opinion that what is being proposed can optimise and improve the internal market principles. To that extent, I am in support of the proposals.The Anglo-Dutch example which the Commissioner quoted is related, inter alia, to the additional taxes which are being levied in each Member State. I know that taxes fall within the national competences, but I believe that the Commission is entitled to intervene if competition and internal market regulation are hindered. You state that you yourself are not responsible for taxation, but it is always the Commission that does the talking. If I therefore address the Commissioner, I assume that, formally, I am addressing the Commission and not specifically the Commissioner. I thus assume that you can take this message with you, as my Irish fellow MEP pointed out.In addition, I should like to ask why it is not possible to take a registered car from another Member State to the country where you live. In this way, far better use could, in fact, be made of the internal market.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we in thesupport the general approach and objectives presented by the Spanish Presidency for the Barcelona meeting and we were able to discuss them in detail when Vice-President Rato y Figaredo appeared before the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. Nevertheless, I would like to make a few comments. One is that we believe that, by the end of the Barcelona European Council, there must be a timetable for the objectives set.Two years have passed since Lisbon and the truth is that, if we look at the evolution of productivity levels, for example, the evolution of the economy itself, not in absolute terms, but in comparison with the United States, or the failure to achieve certain fundamental objectives such as the liberalisation of certain sectors which are still over-protected and which clearly distort competition, the results of this process are not so far satisfactory.Therefore, in order to make the meeting of the European Council credible, in addition to creating another list of things to be done, as has often been said, we must establish a clear relationship between the objectives and the timetable.
Madam President, has it been brought to your attention that the Members' register of interests was last week published on an Internet site, www.mpt2001.co.uk? This was not the result of Parliament putting into practice the principles of transparency and openness, but follows the copying of the records by a team in Parliament working for a British television comedian.Now that the records have been put into the public domain, will you advise all concerned not to allow Parliament to continue looking secretive and foolish, but to take speedy action to bring us into the twenty-first century and get the information published on our own website and made permanently available to European citizens?
Last week, the American Senate agreed to a proposal which would make it possible to invade the European Union using military force. The reason for this improbable and tough provocation is the fact that the International Criminal Court will be based on European soil. The US is prepared to remove American suspects by force.The European Parliament has always been a staunch supporter of the International Criminal Court. Now that the US is trying to undermine its success with draconian measures of this kind, it is important for us to stand up for this Criminal Court.I deem it rather unlikely that the US will actually be besieging its NATO ally, the Netherlands, but the statement by the American senators is uncompromising. It requires a rapid and sharp reaction, including from Europe. I would therefore ask you to add this item to the transatlantic agenda and create an opportunity for this Parliament to discuss this matter with High Representative Solana. My group will be proposing an oral question and debate for the forthcoming plenary session.
Mr President, the essential message of this splendid report, which thestrongly supports, the central message really is that national parliaments could, and should, contribute more to the political system of the European Union. But they ought to focus on what they do best and not tread upon the prerogatives of the European Parliament.What national parliaments must improve on doing is to scrutinise and check the executive power of the Council. What they do worst is to second-guess the legislative powers of the European Parliament. That is why we firmly reject the British proposals to insert a third legislative chamber composed of national MPs, whose function would be 'to police subsidiarity'. Such a national cuckoo inside the federal nest would shatter the codecision procedure, which is the key formula in the Union's own march towards becoming a mature post-national parliamentary democracy. Such a chamber would be stuffed with dutiful poodles of the Council, making a mockery of parliamentary involvement in European affairs at the national level. I trust the British government will listen to the debate on this question in the Convention and then withdraw its dangerous and obscurantist proposal.
Mr President, there can be no compromise with those who hate freedom and democracy. There can be no tolerance of the intolerant. That said, we have more work to do to win hearts and minds in projecting a vision of Europe and the United States as beacons of human rights, non-discrimination, respect for difference and understanding of criticism. It is a paradox that young people in Africa and Asia gaze longingly at the American way of life while damning the United States as the 'great Satan'.We must show, for instance, that we understand the difference between religion that is moderate, reasonable and compassionate and the dogmatic fundamentalism that exists in all religions, not just Islam. But we must make a special effort to keep up a dialogue with Muslims and include them in European societies. We must demonstrably treat others as we wish our own citizens to be treated. Would it not have been a magnificent gesture and morally right to have offered to airlift out all the local victims of the Bali bomb, to show that we were not just looking after rich white westerners? Maybe it is still not too late to do something.The international fight against terrorism inevitably overlaps with the question of combating weapons of mass destruction. We are all conscious of the present developments regarding Iraq. The danger is that any pre-emptive action in the form of a war of conquest geared to regime change will leave the United States looking like an imperialist power in the Middle East. The backlash could create a whole new cause célèbre for terrorism.We must ensure openness and respect for liberty and democracy in the adoption of anti-terrorism measures, but in the 30-page terrorism roadmap you will only find Parliament mentioned four times. The Council is negotiating agreements on mutual legal assistance, extradition and exchange of personal data with the United States, involving Europol-FBI cooperation. In principle, that is fine, but there is no democratic or judicial scrutiny. Although the subject matter is justice and home affairs, where there is normally some parliamentary input, external agreements are negotiated without parliamentary scrutiny. This is unsatisfactory and weakens our claim to be defending liberty and democracy.(Applause)
Members of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party in the European Parliament are abstaining from voting in favour of the report on the situation in the South Caucasus.We support Amendment No 2 from Mr Duff and others which urgently calls upon Turkey and Armenia to cooperate in resolving their historic disagreements with a view to improving their cultural, economic and diplomatic links.
Mr President, at the end of March, more than 75 dissidents were arrested in Cuba, upon which they were sentenced, without trial, to terms of imprisonment lasting 20 years and more. These also include a number of Liberals whom I have met personally in Cuba, such as Osvaldo Alfonso Valdés, the leader of Cuba's Liberal Democratic Party and Adolfo Fernández Sainz, the international secretary of the Party for Solidarity and Democracy. This happened less than a month after the European Commission’s office in Cuba was opened. It is not only a violation of human rights, but also a slap in the face for the European Union. I value the activities that our Cuban office has subsequently taken. We must give a clear signal to the regime in Cuba that we no longer tolerate the situation. A restriction of high-level bilateral government visits, as announced by the Council in its statement of 5 June, is, however, too weak a measure. We must be clear in what we say and as far as I am concerned, the Council should consider taking the same measures as we have done in Zimbabwe, namely deny Fidel Castro access to the European Union, as, in fact, Greece has done in the context of the Olympic Games. I have a great deal of appreciation for this, and I also wonder whether the Council has discussed this and whether the Council supports the Greek Government's decision.
It gives me very great pleasure to thank and support the Council for everything that it has said today on this complicated issue. I rise because, although the Council position has not altered, the Romanian Government has put in a great deal of work, and I want to commend to the Council the report that came out just a few days ago from the independent group for international adoption analysis, which the Prime Minister commissioned. The report has now been adopted and will be published and promoted once one or two details have been sorted out.This new report is very important, in particular for unblocking pipeline cases, which I know will give my good and eminent colleague, Mr Gil-Robles Gil-Delgado, very great pleasure. But we need to remember that it is not just families in Spain and North America who are affected by the corruption and child-trafficking to which the Council has referred. There are many thousands of children in Romania who have families of their own and have become detached from them. So the whole system has to be refreshed, renewed and looked at, as the Council has said. It is a very important matter, particularly in regard to severely disabled children, and I feel confident the new report helps on priority as well.My question to the Council, however, is that I am very concerned at reports, that appear to be very well-founded that the US, stirred perhaps by the emotion that this issue creates, is linking the potential membership of Romania to NATO, which this Parliament 100% supports, with the lifting of the moratorium on inter-country adoption. Could the Council please state – if it is true – that this is a most improper way to behave?
Mr President, it is clear from what the Commissioner has said that the Commission is conscientious in measuring the additionality of structural funding at Member State level, and it was good also to hear his assurances about the various different levels of evaluation that take place.As the Commission will be aware, however, a number of Member States within the European Union have devolved systems of regional government. Such regional systems of government are normally financed in whole or in part from central government funds. It appears to me that, under the present rules, central government can build the EU contribution to structural funding into its calculations for determining regional government budgets.There appears to be no mechanism, despite what the Commissioner said, for ensuring either of two things: first, that the additionality rule is applied to this calculation, and second, that the amount of EU funding which ultimately reaches individual regions corresponds directly to the amount earmarked for those regions at the planning stage. At the very least, this engenders a lack of transparency. It may also mean that the additionality principle is not being properly implemented on a region-by-region basis.I accept, like Mrs Evans, that this does not, strictly speaking, contradict the letter of European Union law on this matter. But, unlike her, it seems to me to be quite clearly contrary to the spirit of additionality rules and undermines the very purposes for which structural funding was established in the first place. Although I come from Scotland, I know these issues are of concern not just to my Liberal Democrat colleagues from other parts of the United Kingdom but also to  members representing regions across the whole of the European Union.
The  group voted to take out the part of Amendment No 46 that seeks to confer 'data retention' powers on Member States; this is the power for governments to require telecoms operators and Internet Service Providers to keep traffic, billing and location data for possible access by law enforcement agencies.We do not disregard the case for some data retention for security purposes. But we oppose insertion in this Directive because the huge implications both for industry and civil liberties are not adequately addressed in this context.It is dangerous and premature to endorse a blanket EU regime of data retention as an add-on to a telecommunications single market package. Any imposition of these powers should be debated at national parliament level and then addressed in the context of EU cooperation on policing and crime-fighting, including guarantees for citizens' rights.This measure voted today is an internal market Directive, part of a package designed to open up the EU market to competition and enable telecoms companies and ISPs to operate on a level playing field. The original Commission proposal did not contain any reference to data retention powers, which was added by the Council of Ministers in its common position.
Mr President, I would firstly like to congratulate Mr Cohn-Bendit and Mr Morillon because the working approach proposed in this report reflects the approach drawn up in the resolution on the Euro-Mediterranean Ministerial Conference in Valencia. Therefore, we will do everything possible to ensure that the consensus approach will allow this report to be effective.I am going to refer directly to the issue of human rights, as Mrs Napoletano did previously. It is especially appropriate that today’s debate on Algeria, proposed by the, is taking place so soon after the elections that a delegation from Parliament attended.I must also say that I was surprised by the Commissioner’s comments on human rights in relation to the visit of the troika, a visit which furthermore took place after the elections; I would like to remind you that our visit took place before the elections.The Committee for Information on Algeria is at work and will publish its conclusions at the appropriate time, in expectation of the work on the report on ratification which is being prepared by Mr Obiols i Germà.I would like to point out that the almost complete lack of participation in the elections in Kabilia, the very low turn-out in Algeria as a whole and the fact that the majority of the population has not been involved and that there have been significant complaints about human rights is extremely worrying.In this regard, I would like to insist once again that in our resolution on the Valencia Conference, we express our unanimous concern at the human rights situation, we defend the need for the situation not to worsen in certain countries with which we have signed association agreements – and the conditions are worsening – and we propose the establishment of mechanisms for applying the democratic clause. If we do not move in this direction, our credibility will hit rock-bottom.Therefore, Mr President, I insist that the report by Mr Morillon and Mr Cohn-Bendit moves in the right direction; we will try to persuade them to support our amendments, at least the general ones, not those relating to specific countries. If over the coming months we are not effective in our defence of human rights, through mechanisms and instruments rather than through declarations, I do not believe we will be moving in the right direction.
Mr President, today I would like to argue for the Dutch polder ecopoint, the Scottish Highland levy and the Spanish Pyrenees tax. Just for the record and for the translation: this is not serious. The ecopoint system for the Alps, which aims to protect the local environment, sets the unjust local Austrian special position against the right of free movement of goods, and means that I am no champion of the current system. I was therefore not enthusiastic when I heard that the Danish Presidency had succeeded in extending the system until 2006. France and Italy also have Alps, and the Pyrenees are also very vulnerable.My colleague Mr Caveri’s report managed to bring this unexpected extension of a bad system by the Council back down to reasonable proportions. If it has to be, then let it be like this. The polluter must pay and the most environmentally friendly lorries must continue to be excluded from the full impact of the ecopoints. I am also pleased with the approach that involves no longer regarding the Austrian Alps as a single entity but looking specifically at those areas where there actually are extremely fragile environmental conditions. If Austria seriously wants to tackle transit traffic that pollutes the environment, she will have to invest in infrastructure, invest in railways, and invest in tunnels. Passing the buck by pleading for a stricter ecopoint system seems to me not to be acting in solidarity with neighbouring countries. It would just create extra traffic in these countries, with too little benefit to the European environment, as traffic would have to make detours. I am fervently hoping for a good result in the voting tomorrow.
Mr President, we are in favour of this debate being dealt with on a European as well as an international level, because we think that the Ustica question, with its fatalities and the controversy left in its wake, which are still an issue in our country, deserves to be clarified, and must be clarified.If we all want to be European citizens, if we want a shared destiny, we must not regard this as just an Italian matter but as a matter for the international community, and it must be investigated and resolved at this level. We are asking for military activities to be definitively and transparently coordinated with civilian activities. This is the transparency that citizens are asking for, this is the justice we want, this is the sense of justice that is being requested by the citizens, by the people who have suffered this grave loss as well as by the entire international community. We are asking, therefore, for serious cooperation between political and military activities. We are asking for justice to be done. Just as Cermis was not only an Italian matter and was dealt with at an international level, so Ustica deserves to be discussed here. It deserves to be clarified and it deserves our respect, as does the work of the magistracy, which must get to the heart of the matter, clarify blame and charge those responsible.
Mr President, Commissioner Byrne did not answer my question about when the contract about research into better vaccines - marker vaccines, etc. - against contagious animal diseases would be concluded. Fortunately, he said that the insurance study is almost completed. However, the study on market vaccines has not yet started. When will it start?
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, combating poverty in the developing countries is the priority of the European Union’s current policy. HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis are poverty-related diseases which are rampant in the developing countries. It beggars belief that in some developing countries, for example, there is a shortage of teachers because half of the teaching workforce has AIDS. It is high time that the European Union pays special attention to this problem, and so I join the previous speakers in welcoming the Commission’s initiative to invoke Article 169 of the Treaty in order that the Sixth Framework Programme for Research can be used to develop new clinical interventions to combat HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis.By establishing networks and coordinating national and regional research programmes, the EU can make a sizeable contribution towards a more efficient policy on research into the development of methods for combating the three above-mentioned diseases. Involving the developing countries themselves, through the European and Developing Countries Clinical Trials Partnership, enables the work to be much more purposeful and means that the research is brought closer to the people concerned. I think that that last point, in particular, is extremely important.In his excellent report, the rapporteur also dotted a few more i’s and crossed a few more t’s. I welcome that, but I should like to make a couple of short comments. The research programmes should not just focus on the development of new drugs, but also on the question as to the simplest way to administer those drugs. How often does one hear the complaint that, although patients in remote areas of developing countries can find their way to a health centre, when they get the drugs home, they stop taking the medication as soon as they feel better. This results in the development of resistant forms of the disease, as has happened with malaria. This is clearly counter-productive.The second point to which I should like to draw attention is the synergy with other European programmes. A large amount of money and high-quality research is required. The Commission’s proposal to set up the Erasmus Mundus programme will shortly be given the support of our Parliament. Students from all over the world will then be invited to come and study in Europe. I should like to ask that students from developing countries, in particular, be given a special chance to take part in this, because the developing countries need highly qualified researchers.EUR 600 million has been allocated for the present proposal, and another 200 million should be coming from the private sector. By helping the researchers, industry, too, can and must make its own considerable contribution.
Mr President, it has been gratifying in the course of this debate to note Parliament’s overwhelming endorsement of enlargement. The circle from Copenhagen to Copenhagen is about to be closed. If you come, as I do, from Copenhagen, the delight is naturally that much greater. Nor, then, shall I conceal my pleasure at coming from a country which, according to the opinion polls, is the country which puts enlargement highest on the agenda. It is encouraging to hear from Mr de Miguel about the considerable progress that has been made during the Spanish Presidency. We must express our thanks for the significant contribution that has been made, just as we must thank Commissioner Verheugen for his tireless efforts.We have also heard about the hurdles which remain and which must be overcome: agricultural policy, Kaliningrad, the Cyprus issue and the Beneš decrees. The question is, whether the Netherlands, Sweden, Germany and Great Britain are to be added to the list. Do not allow them to stand in the way. Let us not lose this historic opportunity to reunify Europe for the sake of freedom, peace and security.Like others, the Danish Presidency too has a three-word motto or slogan. It is ‘enlargement, enlargement, enlargement’. After today’s debate, it could be Parliament’s agenda.
I agree with Mr Pirker, and it is probably the only thing I will agree with him on if we do vote on the Ludford report. It is going to be an interesting vote. It is unreasonable at this stage to postpone it to a time when a lot of people will have left. If you are intending to postpone it to 5.30 p.m., it will totally distort the vote on this report. I urge that we carry on now, understanding all the difficulties that you have mentioned.
Mr President, I should like to say to the Commissioner that, at a time of violent clashes in Genoa and concern over globalisation, the outcome of the Bonn Summit should have renewed peoples' faith in the political process. I hope so – it certainly did mine. Together with Mr Pronk and the Belgian Presidency, you have achieved a great deal. You provided an immense service to the environment and strengthened European influence. I would like to congratulate and thank you.I was pleased with aspects of the deal, the compromise over nuclear power for example was as good as we could get. But overall the agreement is weak. What matters, however, is the process that has now been established. I know that Mr de Roo has instructed me in the past about how the process and the importance of it cannot be overestimated, pointing for example at the way in which the Montreal Protocol has been developed into a really effective instrument from a rather poor beginning over the past decade. But the Kyoto process is going to be very much harder. The priorities are to have it ratified, to get our own Member States to implement effective action plans, and not only to launch emissions trading but to prove that it can work, which is the hardest task of all. And if we can make it work, then I hope that American business will be attracted and the whole political climate across the globe will change.You have still a lot to do. The vast majority in this House will strongly support you in your continuing efforts. I thank you again.
This resolution sets out the concerns that must be shared by the world-wide community about the deterioration of stability in Pakistan and in its neighbouring territories. We are certainly right to regret the military take-over but it would be sensible to recognise that the new military regime is so far extremely popular within Pakistan. Pakistan clearly expects General Musharraf to succeed in stopping a long series of corrupt and illiberal factions. The Sharif and Bhutto regimes have misruled their country for many years. Certainly the military are tackling the financial fraud that exists on a massive scale with vigour.This motion speaks wrongly of the need for democracy to be reinstalled or reinstated. It should be a calling for progress towards democracy and proposing a practical programme for the European Union that will facilitate that progress. Fighting corruption is an essential first step.I trust that the Portuguese Presidency will use its renowned skills and experience to develop European Union appreciation of the problems that confront Pakistan and I would welcome Mr Lamy's opinion on the current status of the Cooperation Agreement.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, many thanks and, on behalf of my group, I would like to thank Mr Berend, who has speedily drawn up this excellent report in exceptional circumstances. We must certainly all agree that we need a flexible tool that allows for quick action to repair damage caused by major disasters. Establishing the Solidarity Fund is such an important issue, however, that more time should have been set aside to discuss it. During the Committee debate and afterwards many factors came up which we have had insufficient time to consider properly.Our group is in favour of establishing the fund. The threshold for the use of the aid must be kept high. The fund must concentrate on immediate costs during the initial stage of major natural disasters. Actual reconstruction does not form part of the fund’s remit. Risk factors must be addressed through insurance and preventive measures whenever possible.It is also important that the fund should not become a new variation on the Structural Funds, to be used up on a yearly basis. It must only be used when there has been an exceptional, major disaster, when help is really needed.One or two questions came up after the committee debate. I would like to ask the Commissioner what the position will be on major disasters taking place in third countries and resulting in suffering for people in the Member States and the applicant countries. Secondly, what will the maximum amount of aid be as a percentage of the costs of damage?
Mr President, I should like to ask the Commissioner a question in connection with what she said a moment ago about the Viking. As far as I know, the Viking was not denied access to a port of refuge. The ship sailed to Rotterdam because it is a double-hulled ship that had sunk deeper because the double hull had flooded. The ship then sailed under its own steam to Belgian waters, which, strictly speaking, is already against the rules, and was denied access to Zeebrugge and Ostend. The owner refused to conclude a contract with the salvager. So there was a problem. This is the information I have. It would perhaps be useful if a temporary committee were to institute inquiries into incidents that have not resulted in disasters. After all, we could learn a great deal from them about how we should organise things more effectively. However, I think that the Belgian authorities, in the case involving the Viking, did not make the kind of errors that we can observe in the present case.
Mr President, we are looking just now towards China in the hope that the incident involving the American aircraft will be resolved without too much rhetoric and political point-scoring. Even setting aside this event, reports from China are, nevertheless, pouring in thick and fast. They almost always concern acts of cruelty against its own citizens. Commentators the world over are agreed that the human rights situation in China is becoming worse and worse. We are talking here about the situation in Tibet and Sinkiang and about the widespread increase in the torture and persecution of dissidents, active trade unionists and representatives of democracy. We are talking about the frequent use of the death penalty and the opposition mounted against freedom of expression on the Internet. We are talking, in particular, about the arrest, torture and persecution of Falun Gong practitioners. The Chinese régime’s objective of breaking this movement will not succeed. The persecutions must therefore be halted immediately and a dialogue entered into.Parliament agrees about the situation in China. I know that the Commission shares this view, and Commissioner Patten has defended human rights in China several times in this Chamber. The world’s most populous country is systematically violating its citizens’ rights. Europe cannot remain silent and watch this happen. The signals coming from the Council are, however, conflicting and hypocritical and help weaken the international struggle to get the Chinese régime to change its policy. This lack of unity benefits none other than the Chinese régime, and at the expense of the Chinese people. The Council must therefore get its act together and show that all the talk about unity is not just idle chatter but can also be expressed in action. It must also support the resolution against China in Geneva in a couple of weeks’ time.
Madam President, I have voted against the Watson report for the following reasons.I fully support the measures against terrorism and in my view, it is possible and necessary for the EU Member States to work closely together in this field. The European arrest warrant can make a major contribution towards the efficiency of the fight against terrorism within European territory.I am of the opinion that the European arrest warrant is desirable. However, this should be thought through and considered more carefully, so that it is not implemented at the expense of other important matters. The present draft offers too little in the way of guarantees and may sound the death knell of Dutch liberal criminal policy.In order to strike a compromise, I have tried to table an amendment via the rapporteur which prescribes the following condition for the European arrest warrant: a European arrest warrant may only be issued for offences committed on the territory of the requesting State.However, this amendment has been vetoed by the Socialists in the working party.I have also voted against the report because the Council is expected to adopt a different draft.I am therefore in favour of anti-terrorist measures as well as the European arrest warrant, but not at the expense of the liberal criminal policy in the Netherlands.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the conference on rural development held in Cork from 7 to 9 November 1996 set rural development as one of the European Union’s priorities since it is essential in order to maintain the existence and continued development of agriculture, to provide farmers with an environment containing the necessary infrastructure and services, and to ensure greater respect for the environment and a better quality of life, diversification and job creation.An integrated development policy for all rural areas in the European Union is therefore needed, consisting of the following elements: an integrated, multi-sectoral approach, simplification of administrative procedures, improvement of the partnership between European institutions and national and local actors and protection of the environment. In its 1998 policy paper, Agenda 2000, the Commission set out two key principles on which rural development policy should be based: the recognition of the multifunctionality of agriculture and the need for an integrated strategy for developing rural areas. The first principle means creating a new ‘pact’ between farmers and society, making the farmer ‘steward of the countryside’ and ensuring that society is prepared to pay for the environmental services needed to safeguard the countryside’s recreation value. The second principle is based on the fact that nowadays many of the job opportunities in rural areas are outside the traditional agricultural sector, so that a complete development programme which integrates rural development policies with agricultural sector policies needs to be implemented. In this way rural development is becoming a pillar of the CAP.The LEADER Community initiative was launched in 1991 to promote a new bottom-up approach to rural development and to diversify measures by adapting them to local needs. The following objectives were set: improving the development potential of rural areas by calling upon local initiative; promoting the acquisition of knowledge in the rural development sector; disseminating this knowledge to other rural areas.LEADER I applied to the rural areas covered by Structural Fund Objectives 1 and 5b, and 217 local action groups participated in it, with financing of EUR 1 155 million. LEADER II (1994-1999), for which a total evaluation has, unfortunately, not yet been completed, had a wider scope than LEADER I: there were probably over 800 beneficiaries and the sums allocated, after reallocation of resources, probably amounted to over EUR 4 000 million. In October 1999, following the success of LEADER I and LEADER II, the Commission decided to extend the initiative. For the 2000-2006 period provision has been made, unfortunately, only for a total contribution of EUR 2 020 million, and an indicative allocation for each Member State has been set.LEADER+ differs from the previous stages in that all rural areas will be eligible. It is also more ambitious, and better geared to the challenges which rural areas will have to meet. The main changes are as follows: all rural areas will be eligible to benefit from LEADER+; the selection criteria for local measures will be more rigorous; integrated local development plans will be introduced as priority themes, such as the use of information technology, improving the quality of life, and adding value to local products.I therefore approve of the continuation of the initiative because, as I was saying, it emphasises the innovative development strategies and because it is more ambitious, even though there is still the need to make the criteria by which areas qualify as rural more flexible so as not to penalise rural areas with high or low population densities. I believe the networking system to be vital for the exchange of information and skills and for the implementation of joint projects between different areas of the Union and I repeat that in order to be fully successful it must exploit inter alia measures already in existence, such as the Carrefours.I share the Commission’s preference for the use of global grants while urging, however, that the accounting requirements of national and regional authorities should be precisely and painstakingly defined. I regret the delay with which LEADER, as was the case with the other three initiatives, was presented to Parliament and for the knock-on delay this entailed for the whole procedure.Finally, I am concerned by the paucity of the amount allocated, if you consider, in addition, that this time the programme is available to all the countries of the Union and will be implemented for a year longer than the previous LEADER II.I would like to thank the Commission services for their helpfulness and cooperation, and I would like to thank my colleagues in the Committee on Agriculture for the contribution they have made through their amendments.
The’s Members of the European Parliament attach importance to the fact that, with today’s decision, Parliament has NOT supported the fourteen prime ministers’ diplomatic sanctions against Austria. The’s Members of Parliament therefore supported the Liberal decision’s powerful rejection of any form of xenophobia in Austria or elsewhere. We attach crucial importance to applying, if necessary, the new provisions under Article 7 of the Amsterdam Treaty so that a country which, by its actions, infringes fundamental citizens’ rights by means of discrimination and such like will have its voting rights in the EU’s Council of Ministers removed.
In other words – no, but it was a very nicely wrapped-up reply. Mr President-in-Office, you and I agree on the goals of trying to inform the European public, not just in Brussels but everywhere, of what we are doing. I suggest that you should try – or get your staff to try – to sell the idea to television companies. Although your Prime Minister will make a wonderful speech here in the plenary in July, reporting on the presidency, a speech in this chamber is not the same as a comfortable talk to the peoples of Europe.If you think of the way that President Clinton did it, it is not the same thing. I really do urge you – the publications, the seminars, the debates that you organise in Brussels are not the way to reach 300 million people the length and breadth of Europe. A nice TV chat by the Swedish Prime Minister would be a very good beginning and it is not good enough just to do it in this chamber.
Mr President, the joint resolution which we are about to put to the vote is, in my opinion, particularly well-balanced. Notably, the Rotterdam incident does not alter our view of the human rights record or the quality of democracy in Holland, which I consider to be among the most liberal countries in the world, although it was treated as serious, both in terms of the shameful treatment of the disabled people and because of the violence against the journalists who were merely doing their duty. Their nationality is of little importance. The European Union, through its highest expression of democracy, the European Parliament, condemns the occurrence of such an incident within its borders. This is the best approach to take on the matter.Any national aspects will, where necessary, be dealt with by the governments concerned and are nothing to do with us. On the other hand, particularly in its urgent resolutions, the European Union does not hold back in expressing stringent positions on the conduct of other countries or events taking place in other parts of the world where human rights are violated. Would it not lose all credibility if it did not also criticise similar events within its borders?
Mr President, at this time I shall be thinking of our former colleague, Ullman, who was the rapporteur when we discussed electronic signatures last time. There were not many of us present here then, but there are a few more of us today. I think it is because there are more of us here in the Chamber who understand the importance of this directive.Its importance is also illustrated by the share issue last week in connection with the Finnish company, Data Fellows. This was a real example of people’s capitalism. Data Fellows is a company which, partly through the Internet, markets just the kind of security and verification services we have been discussing. It is therefore an economically important proposal we are debating.When we discuss this, it is also important that we obtain a quick decision, as the rapporteur pointed out and as many others have emphasised. I support the rapporteur and am pleased about the Council’s view that a quick decision is wanted and that constructive dialogue has taken place. I think that, otherwise, the European market may well become fragmented because quite a lot of countries have now already adopted directives. It would therefore be unfortunate if we were not to obtain this directive.I also think that this directive is clear, even though there have been certain discussions about its not specifying what formal requirements the Member States want to make in connection with different procedures. One unoriginal example which might be used to illustrate this is the fact that, if legislation in the Member States makes it a prerequisite that both parties be present simultaneously, then, in order to get married over the Internet, it is not enough for both parties to produce this type of signature. There is therefore a formal requirement there in the legislation, and this cannot be overturned.When we talk about identification and security services of this type, I hope that we do not limit ourselves and think that it is just a question of numbers. Instead, we shall, in the future, have other forms of perhaps physical identification and verification, and I hope that this will be borne in mind when drafting the revision clause of the directive. Now, do not imagine that I have been watching too many James Bond films. No, this is in fact how it is going to be in the future, and that is why the revision clause is important.The talk is of voluntary agreements and of a variety of options, but in actual fact it is important that the security requirements in this directive should be complied with so that signatures valid on a national basis also have international currency. It is also worth pointing out that the Commission has an important task in establishing both what are to be regarded as reliable signatures and what are to be regarded as secure arrangements. Where these matters are concerned, I hope that the Commission will establish standards which are economically correct, that this will be done in an open way and that no de facto monopoly will be created. We know in fact that standards in the information society have precisely this degree of significance. The directive gives the Commission a very great deal of power in this area.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would firstly like to remind you that the outermost regions of the EU are located in areas where the inhabitants live in the shadow of cyclones from the Caribbean and violent storms coming in from the oceans, and for this reason we should not be surprised that some natural disasters will take place in these areas from time to time, such as the one which occurred recently in Tenerife in the Canary Islands, where, fortunately, some of us who are Members of Parliament happen to live.Unfortunately, on 31 March, Santa Cruz de Tenerife, one of the capitals of the Canary Islands, which is an outermost region of the European Union and an Objective 1 region, some of whose works are being carried out under the Urban initiative – as has just been pointed out – suffered a natural disaster on a huge scale. In only two hours, heavy rainfall of more than 200 litres/m2 flooded the capital. Thousands of citizens, hundreds of homes and business premises, thousands of vehicles and a large proportion of public infrastructure were affected by the devastating consequences of this storm. The saddest fact, however, is that eight people died as a direct result. In addition to this tragic human loss there was a huge amount of material loss, estimated at more than EUR 100 million. For this reason, a public campaign was launched to repair the damage caused and to make Santa Cruz de Tenerife a town fit for habitation once more. Fortunately, Santa Cruz is recovering, thanks to solidarity and to collective efforts, and trusts in the official support of the public authorities of the Canary Islands.However, we think that the Commission should adopt a series of measures in cooperation with the aforementioned authorities to make an exceptional contribution to alleviate the damage caused and, in this way, the citizens of the Canary Islands can feel that European institutions are close to them at this time of need. This also applies to similar occurrences that have happened in the Autonomous Community of Valencia.
Mr President, I would like to praise Commissioner Fischler for his insightful comments when introducing this debate, for we know that the environmental situation faces catastrophe when it comes to fishing and sustainability. This does not just apply to cod and white fish. All the scientists are afraid that we are fishing most of our fish species to extinction.We have to remember that, without fish, there would be no fishermen, there would be no economy and there would be no fisheries policy. What we are also in the process of losing is a very important coastal and fishing culture in almost all European countries, which is possibly the worst catastrophe as far as we are concerned. We cannot continue fishing in this way, however. We bear responsibility not only for those living today but also for the future of our children and our grandchildren.In its decision, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy also addressed the fact that we rich Europeans buy – for considerable sums it is true, but still for small change – fishing rights from poorer countries. What are we really doing there? What are our plans for sustainability? What readiness is there to help the poor coastal fishermen on Africa’s coastline? Do we have the right to behave as colonially as we are actually doing when it comes to fishing agreements with developing countries? There are a lot of pretty words on paper, but what does it look like in reality?We have fished ourselves into a catastrophe. For God’s sake, do not let us also fish the poor to the brink of catastrophe too.(The sitting was suspended at 8.05 p.m. and resumed at 9 p.m.)IN THE CHAIR: MR VIDAL-QUADRAS ROCAVice-President
Mr President, Commissioner, I should like to congratulate my fellow MEP, Mr Parish, on an extremely good report. I want to focus upon the small number of young people going into farming in recent years and, at the same time, the unduly large number of people who are also leaving it, because, if young people do not come into the industry, there will come a time when agriculture no longer exists. I think that the image of farming – due to the many outbreaks of disease, dioxin scandals etc – is, at the moment, one of the really major problems. It puts the whole industry in a negative light and seems unfair to the many farming families who would, of course, get top marks for the way they look after their farms. It is undoubtedly very important that there should be transparency and that people should be made more aware of production methods and of the modern stalls and cowsheds that now exist, as well as being given information about the common agricultural policy and about the ways in which fields and animals are looked after. Efforts must be concentrated on providing support – moral, educational and financial. No one has in recent years questioned the many millions of euros we pump into training lawyers, engineers and doctors. There is a clear parallel with young farmers who, of course, are responsible for the land and the animals we have and, especially, the food we eat.
Mr President, I merely want to say that we Liberals do not want to participate in these votes concerning natural disasters because we think that they do not belong in this Parliament. We also believed that we had reached an understanding that we should no longer discuss resolutions of this type.
Mr President, Commissioner, the Greenland agreement differs from the other fisheries agreements that the EU has entered into with third countries because it secures the EU access to fisheries resources via financial compensation and offers of market access for Greenland products. Nor shall I conceal the fact that, for me as a Danish parliamentarian, Greenland and the fisheries protocol with Greenland are of quite special importance.This is the fourth fisheries protocol with Greenland, and one which is of great value to both parties. The financial compensation amounts to EUR 900 per capita in Greenland and gives the EU access to Greenland fisheries products, which constitute more than 90% of Greenland’s total exports. The fisheries agreement with Greenland also makes it possible for fishing rights to be exchanged with Iceland, Norway and the Faeroe Islands, something that maintains an overall balance in the north-east Atlantic.The fourth protocol contains clear improvements on previous protocols in the shape of increased transparency, so that the Community’s quotas now correspond to the real fishing possibilities in Greenland’s waters, and the EU has, moreover, a continued option on the quantities laid down in the third protocol in the event of the stocks improving.There is good cause for acknowledging your contribution, Commissioner Fischler, to what you called ‘the historic agreement’. The fourth protocol proposes that, upon expiry of the protocol, under-utilised fishing possibilities might be used up by countries other than those that derive direct benefit from the agreement in accordance with the principle of relative stability.There is no doubt that the EU’s fisheries agreements with third countries are now a significant part of the common fisheries policy. The general expansion of the coastal states’ fishing zones to 200 nautical miles in the seventies meant that 95% of fishing stocks and 35% of the sea was subject to the coastal state legislation. Traditional fishing grounds were lost, and a need was created for cooperation with third countries in order to ensure the continued survival of the Community’s fishing fleets with a view to preserving the Community’s share of world catches and securing continued supplies of fish to the EU’s markets.The fisheries agreement with Greenland came into force in 1995 in connection with Greenland’s withdrawal from the EU as a result of the self-government agreement with Denmark. Unfortunately, the Commission neglected to inform the European Parliament of experimental fisheries and of the creation of joint ventures. Joint ventures are, in particular, something I expect a lot of, and I shall propose that we in the Committee on Fisheries initiate a discussion of their advantages and disadvantages.I am able, in the end, to support Mrs Miguélez Ramos's report, and I should like to commend the work she has done.
Mr President, Commissioner Byrne, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission’s proposal on animal by-products involves strict separation into three categories. I would like to remind you that category 1 includes the risk material and is primarily covered by the regulation on TSEs recently adopted by Parliament for the third time. Some proposed amendments contradict the regulation on TSEs which we have recently adopted.Category 1 covers risk material. Category 2 includes animals which have died a natural death. The third category includes material classified as by-products from animals slaughtered which passed the health inspection.The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy has chosen, as I myself have, to support the approach of the Commission and attempted to improve the practical regulatory framework and, above all, to make it more stringent, for the principles in this report are simple but things are considerably more difficult in practice. Implementation in particular will be difficult. As such, we require strict separation of the material from the three categories. There is also a need for strict separation of facilities, transport routes, etc. I can add that it is likely that, in future legislation, we will have to require the same separation of feed plants or lines for different types of feed.It is important to mention that all material in categories 1 and 2 is to be marked with an indelible dye and odorant so that they cannot, either deliberately or through negligence, re-enter the feed production chain, for example. Naturally, the same rules which apply to domestic production are also to apply to export, re-export and import.Together with the committee, I am very pleased that ‘cannibalism’ has been put a stop to in this way. This means that pigs can no longer be fed on their fellow species. However, I would ask you to note that the total ban on feeding ruminants on all forms of animal protein remains and is regulated in the regulation on TSEs, not here. Personally, I am also very pleased to see that, from today onwards, fat from category 2 may only be used as fertiliser or ideally as fuel oil. In my opinion, it is vital that, at some point, we break the enrichment of heavy metals, PCBs and dioxins.It is now my hope that Parliament will adopt these principles laid down by a strong majority. I must therefore turn to Amendment No 100 from the Group of the European People’s Party and. This proposal, which was presented in the committee and voted down, seeks to permanently ban all meat and bone meal, with the exception of fish meal, in all animal feed. I would ask you to think this through. We know the catastrophe we caused when we turned ruminants into omnivores. Even now we can see problems in attempting to turn omnivores into vegetarians. I appeal for humility in the face of nature’s own system. We must not manipulate it a second time. Instead, a better way is to vote in favour of the proposal from the Green Group, Amendment No 64, which enjoins Member States to submit, before 1 February 2003, a report on the uniform implementation of the provisions laid down in this new regulation. After that, we will discuss lifting the temporary ban on meat and bone meal which is now in force.I would also like you to vote against Amendments Nos 22 and 33. These would in fact sabotage part of the categorisation and complicate it. There is no great need to test whether a chicken dead of natural causes should be placed in category 2 instead of category 1.When it comes to new technology, I strongly advocate trying new technology, never preventing development. I therefore submitted a proposal myself, which was adopted by the committee and which permits the use of new methods approved by the scientific committees. This Amendment No 43 opens up every opportunity for different types of new technology once we obtain them and once they are approved. I would therefore like to see us voting against Amendments Nos 20, 25, 26, 35 and 43 where these address a particular new technology, namely alkaline hydrolysis. This may be an excellent technique, but I do not think it should be included five times in a regulation. That would be legal overkill, to put it mildly.I also appeal to you to vote against Amendment No 36, as this is far too narrow compared with the Commission’s original proposal. As the text is now worded, serious zoonoses, i.e. diseases which affect both animals and people, would be exempt from this legislation. In other words, it would only concern animal diseases. This means that serious infectious diseases such as salmonella, listeria and even tuberculosis, would be exempt from this regulation. This would be devastating for public health.Amendment No 23 exempts, for example, sheep and goats which have died of natural causes from the specification risk material. This clearly conflicts with the regulation on TSEs and is probably impossible in practice.I have chosen to support the amendments on control of household waste in terms of the risks of foot-and-mouth disease and swine fever submitted by the Green Group, i.e. Amendments Nos 102 and 103. It is good if we obtain clear rules, but these amendments might not properly resolve the main question in this context, namely the clash in terms of cannibalism and household waste.I will end – not before time – by thanking the Commission and the Council’s working party for a very constructive, creative and valuable dialogue and my shadow rapporteurs for their assistance and help.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will just mention five points in the short time available to me. Firstly, I welcome the Convention. It is not a constituent assembly but it is all we could realistically achieve. Secondly, we need to be careful not to undervalue or trivialise the term ‘European Constitution’, and the members of the Convention need to be courageous and innovative in their role. Thirdly, federalism must not be a matter just for the States and the European Union, with the basic regional and local levels and linguistic and national minorities being excluded. Fourthly, with regard to the method, Commissioner Barnier is right to talk about ‘maximum consensus’. We are not aiming at unanimity on the reforms. Fifthly and lastly: the timetable. We must beware of excessively long delays between the Convention and the Intergovernmental Conference supposed to adopt the European Constitution, for it is an unfortunate fact that enthusiasm for reforms wanes fast.
Mr President, this amendment quite simply concerns a mistake which has crept into the text of the resolution, paragraph 5. My amendment aims to rectify the text which was agreed when the common resolution was drafted. So it concerns a mistake which we are trying to rectify by means of this amendment.
Mr President, the crisis concerning the boat full of Afghan refugees off Australia again calls attention to the whole problem of Afghan refugees. In the last 20 years, millions of people have fled Afghanistan and, according to the UN human rights organisation, approximately 6.2 million Afghans are classified as refugees.Their first port of call when they leave the country is generally one of the refugee camps in Pakistan and Iran, where they live in appalling conditions. Pakistan can no longer cope with the number of refugees and is sending them back to Afghanistan. Outside the refugee camps, there are so-called travel agents waiting who send refugees with money on to other countries, and the cheapest fare to a Western country is now a journey to Australia, which costs approximately EUR 6 000.This stream of refugees will not stop if we do not manage to receive the refugees properly near Afghanistan and that is what we as the European Union must put our money into. This is the solution to the problem. As long as people are living there in dreadful conditions, they will want to go on fleeing to Western countries.
Mr President, five people, namely Thongpaseuth Keuakoun, Kamphouvieng Sisaath, Seng-Aloun Phenphanh, Bouavanh Chanhmanivong and Keochay, disappeared on 26 October 1999 and were probably imprisoned for holding a peaceful protest in Vientiane and calling for political changes in their country. They are all members of the Lao student movement for democracy. Their safety is feared for because of the torture and poor treatment in the prisons. The government of Laos should see the contribution of this kind of motivated person precisely as an impulse towards improvement. They must be able to contribute freely.Freedom of expression, the right of association and assembly are greatly restricted in Laos. Inflation is currently running at over 30%. The mysterious bomb explosions are damaging the largest economic factor in the country, tourism. If the government does not act soon to implement political and economic reforms then this country faces an unstable future.- Guinea-Conakry
I must say I think most Members will think that a six-month delay is exceedingly disappointing, but it is nice to hear something positive. Can you indicate to us what the possible obstacles are? Does anybody have a veto on this date of 3 December or can you give us a guarantee that it is actually going to happen? You are not going to tell us at the end of the Belgian presidency: I am so sorry it slipped; somebody got it in the way! Can you guarantee it is going to happen or does someone have a veto?
Mr President, great is the frustration and disappointment of the European Parliament, almost five years on from the Barcelona Declaration, at the lack of progress made in the implementation of the programmes and objectives it set out. Disappointment and frustration which are all the greater when we consider the substantial progress of European policies in other fields, for example regarding the East, Central Europe and the Balkans, and also relations between Europe and Latin America. It is obvious to all of us that the Euro-Mediterranean Partnership has to complement the European policy for the Mediterranean Basin.I would like to stress the basic points upon which we expect a detailed response from this debate: the clause which sets out the basis of the agreements, on respect for human rights, the undertaking to draw up ratification instruments for giving effect to the association agreements, and the development and acceleration of new linkages for a cooperation process with Libya, provided that the requisite political conditions are in evidence at the Cairo Conference on 3-4 April 2000. Mr President, I would also like to stress the need to forge ahead with objectives that facilitate a greater involvement of civil society in creating networks linking cities, ports, universities, trade associations, entrepreneurs and non-governmental organisations, for the INTERREG programmes to be used to promote balanced development with regard to trade and territory through the modernisation of economic structures, so that the MEDA programme, which has received such a disappointingly small amount of funding, can at last bear fruit.Finally, Mr President, may I say that the Union’s Mediterranean policy could become one of the common strategies laid down by Article 12 of the Treaty on European Union regarding foreign and security policy, and that we could also promote the political dimension of the issue through parliamentary debate.
Mr President, let me begin by saying that it is in itself a good thing that the rapporteur should focus attention on the problem of the consequences of globalisation for female immigrants. However, I have some misgivings, because what is the purpose of this report? The previous speaker made this point. Does it contribute to the finding of work, and if so, how? The problems are certainly not limited to women from Mediterranean countries. Women from other parts of the world often have to contend with the same problems. In addition, it is not the case that the European Parliament has not concerned itself with these problems before. I think, for example, of the reports on trafficking in women and the communication from the Commission on a Community-wide immigration policy, which will shortly be discussed in various committees in the European Parliament.My group therefore considers that this report is, in fact, too immature and too superficial to provide a substantial contribution to the discussion. There are also a number of shortcomings in this report. I shall mention a few.Naturally we agree with gender mainstreaming in this field, but I have problems with the text: in Section 15, the Dutch version speaks of the “channelling of migratory flows to Europe”, while the English text refers to “quotas of migratory flows”. Channelling migratory flows is just about acceptable to my group, but the introduction of quotas is definitely not.A second point. Internally the European Union has still not solved the problem of the recognition of each other’s national professional qualifications and titles. That is, of course, crucial to this problem group, which is why, during the discussion in the Committee on Women’s Rights and Equal Opportunities, the Liberals invited Member States – also in the context of immigration from Mediterranean countries (and, in fact, from all countries) – to recognise professional qualifications and titles. But I find the proposal contained in the report to set up, especially for immigrants, an information office on domestic services, very odd. It sounds very limited. Surely it is not just a matter of cheap domestic help?A third point. The report talks of Euro-Mediterranean citizenship. Does such a thing exist? Will we have Euro-ACP citizenship or Euro-Mercosur citizenship? Because the European Union has entered into treaties with these countries too. And what kind of status will such a citizen have? A higher status, or a lower one? Such a measure might well lead to discrimination. And I could go on.My group therefore concludes that while it is in itself useful for the problems of women immigrants to be highlighted, this has been done previously and better. This report is too superficial, too one-sided and bears the marks of a one-sided approach to a very vulnerable group. As a result, my group finds itself obliged, despite the improvement introduced by us, to withhold its support from this report.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I too want to thank the rapporteurs with regard to the rail package. They have done excellent work with respect to this important matter. The rapporteurs have addressed the issue thoroughly, listened to various experts and committee members, negotiated, and sought viable compromises, keeping all the while to the main goal, which is to improve the competitiveness, safety and compatibility of the railways. The proposal for a Railway Agency lends further support to this whole objective.Now it is important for the Council not to put the brakes on the implementation of the reforms. We have dawdled far too long in the development of the railways. It is high time a competitive alternative with regard to railway transport were established.Arguments for implementing the rail package have been put forward many times now. Developing the railways means we can ease congestion on the roads and encourage environmentally friendly transport. A workable railway system and moderately priced and competitive services are important both for congested areas and also the export industry in more remote regions.The opening up of competition in freight and passenger transport will encourage the development of rail transport. For this a viable package must be created, with a clear timetable too for opening up competition in the field of passenger traffic. We must be able to make progress in the areas of technical compatibility and safety standards as well as other regulations, so that trains run throughout Europe speedily and safely, offering a competitive alternative for the transport of both freight and passengers. Mr Sterckx’s aim for a high level of safety in rail transport will certainly have the support of everyone.The role of the Member States in their adoption of national rules will also be important. They should not slow down the long-term process of development, and Member States should obtain the approval of the Commission for new national rules. For safety’s sake it is also important for trains to be equipped with a black box and that the data compiled by the equipment and the way that data is processed are standardised.The main task of the Railway Agency will be to promote best practice and facilitate cooperation between the players in the railway sector. The various players in the railway sector must be involved in the work of the Agency but not every Member State can be represented on the Administrative Board. The work of the Agency must nevertheless take account of the different conditions to be found in the Member States.
Mr President, I too should like to thank the High Representative for his statement. It is with much regret that we have to observe that the large amount of sympathy always enjoyed by Israel in Europe has sustained significant damage over the last year. That is something that can be inferred from today’s debate in this House, and it can be observed by keeping an eye on the European media and by listening to the announcements by the European governments, parliaments and political parties, including too the very clear European rejection of the decision by Israel’s Security Cabinet to remove Yasser Arafat from the Palestinian territories.In the same way, we must condemn the Israeli attack on Syria, an action that contravenes international law. Nor does the fact that the United States is now considering sanctions against Syria contribute to a solution to the Middle East conflict.The latest trend is, naturally enough, reflected here in the European Parliament and thus in the report that we have just heard discussed and that has been adopted by a large majority of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy. This contains probably the toughest criticism of Israel we have seen here in Parliament.The Israeli Government must withdraw its military forces from the occupied territories and bring them home. It must put a stop to the executions, and it must suspend all activities surrounding the settlements and the construction of the shameful so-called Security Wall. I should like to thank Mr Poettering for his very clear remarks about that wall.The Palestinian authorities must secure clear and firm support for the new government’s efforts to reorganise the security forces. They must restore public order. They must clearly demonstrate that they are taking practical and visible steps to combat the terrorist movements, they must implement the reforms already proposed and they must organise, where possible, free, fair and open elections.We no doubt all share the High Representative’s frustrations, but we must keep to the Quartet’s road map for peace in the Middle East. We must reach a definitive peace agreement between two equal, democratic and sovereign states that live peacefully together behind secure and recognised borders on the basis of UN Resolution 242 of 22 November 1967. Israel and Palestine cannot resolve the conflict without help from outside, and the international community must continue to put pressure on both parties. It may also be necessary to send an international intervention and observation force to the region, a force that the Quartet must assemble, that, under the auspices of the UN, would monitor developments and that, subsequently, could guarantee that the final peace agreement was being observed by the parties.
Mr President, I too wish first of all to thank Mr Glante for producing an excellent report. The proposal for a directive on the promotion of cogeneration is an important part of the EU’s strategy for energy efficiency and energy savings. Cogeneration will also contribute to a reduction in greenhouse gases, as has been said here.The short-term aim must be to develop the present cogeneration plants and, where possible, to encourage the establishment of high-efficiency plants. The longer-term objective must be to create a framework for ensuring that high-efficiency cogeneration has a key role to play in increasing energy efficiency and savings.The amendments relating to micro-generation, renewable energy sources and district cooling are important in terms of technological development. It is possible to store heat in all size categories for a day or a year, as opposed to what is stated in the Commission proposal and in certain committee opinions. Financial support should not be restricted just to CHP technology based on a useful heat demand. Flexibility in the use of CHP plants must be permitted, as dictated by the time of year, the working day and random variables. Waste heat produced at a cogeneration plant has a potentially wider use than is the case at present. It may also be used, for example, for cooling, water purification and air conditioning.This report is very technical, and the Finnish word ‘suuritehoinen’ (‘powerful’) often mistakenly appears in the Finnish language version. The correct translation is ‘korkean hyötysuhteen’ (‘high-efficiency’). The word ‘suuritehoinen’ would lead the reader to understand that the directive only applied to large installations. The important thing is that the will is there to support high-efficiency technology regardless of size.
Mr President, even Paris is divided over Nice. The French President and the First Minister seem to be more obsessed with their own political future than with that of Europe. The French Presidency has shown little enough consistency, and where it has this has mainly been in terms of its lack of neutrality and the preferential treatment it has given to the large Member States, and that at a time when the Union has never been more in need of a President who looks for consensus. In order to make room for the newcomers, all Member States need to move a little closer together, but they only do so when they really cannot put off the evil moment any longer. It seems as if some governments are already reconciling themselves to a new IGC for enlargement. The governments have lost sight of the urgent need for reforms because they are concentrating too much on their own position of power in the new set-up.For example, many a country will emphasise that majority decision making must become the general rule, but at the same, will come up with so many exceptions that precious little remains on balance. If majority voting does not become the general rule then decision-making will become irretrievably deadlocked, as Mr Prodi rightly commented a moment ago. If this does not go hand-in-hand with codecision then democracy will be further undermined. The weighting of votes in the Council must do justice to the population numbers in the Member States, which means that it is quite acceptable for there to be some corresponding differences between the larger and smaller countries. All Member States must retain one Commissioner of their own during this enlargement round. Only afterwards should we decide on a new system on the basis of the experience we will have gained by then. If one thing is for certain, Europe is going to undergo radical change, and so let us not run ahead of a situation that we are unable to take stock of as yet.It would be very desirable to introduce a hierarchy into the Commission, i.e. Vice-Presidents, Commissioners and Under-Commissioners. In addition, this would afford Parliament more opportunities to discuss issues with politically responsible members of the Commission rather than officials who read out actual texts that they could just as easily have sent. The Charter does not deserve to be left in a vacuum, with no clear status. In failing to incorporate the text into the Treaty and only subscribing to it in political terms, we are opening the door to major problems of legal interpretation. Hence the Charter must be incorporated into a treaty text as soon as possible. I have this to say to the Heads of Governments: making concessions at the forthcoming summit is not a political defeat but a political triumph: the triumph of the new Europe over the old. Do not allow any shadows to fall over Nice, and let Paris be the City of Light again.
Mr President, Commissioner, it is with great sorrow that we follow the events in Nigeria. I was among those who believed that the election of President Obasanjo some years ago would usher in change. This latest report and discussion is just one in a long line indicating that the security forces are not acting as they should and that the causes are not being investigated. There are reports that some years ago the president was in principle calling for all those belonging to the Oodua People's Congress, that is, several hundred people, to be fired upon. Transparency International still classes Nigeria as the second most corrupt country in the world. The figures for child labour and trafficking in children are highest in Nigeria.If we were really sincere about these matters, we should now also call on the ambassadors to take steps in Nigeria to publicise the fact that Amina Lawal is welcome in any European country. We should act to say that she can come here, that we, as Europeans together, are prepared to save her. That is the only honourable way to proceed. I would ask the Commissioner to consider speaking with the ambassadors.
Mr President, I am Belgian and I am not opposed to the common position. If the chocolate which I love so much were to be at risk or if the tradition of Belgian chocolate manufacturers were to be in danger, then I would, of course, be opposed to it.I bought some chocolate here in Strasbourg this morning and the French sales assistant explained to me quite clearly what exactly I was buying. The designation on the front of the product states: Prestige noir intense 72% cacao and in gold lettering, which, in France, is quite something, chocolat belge. So I know what I bought.In my opinion, the pending directive will make it even easier for producers of quality chocolate to set themselves clearly apart from the others if they so wish.I do concur with the rapporteur on one point. The producers of cocoa beans, namely the small farmers in the poor third-world countries, are vulnerable. We need to keep a close eye on them and this is why I am in favour of a study being carried out by the Commission on the effects of the directive, no more than two years after the introduction of this directive. So let us now deal with this matter once and for all and ensure that everyone can eat the chocolate they fancy and that a real internal market can be established for chocolate.
Madam President, under Rule 111 of the European Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, I propose an amendment to the agenda of this part-session to include a statement by the Commission about the French Government’s refusal to lift the beef ban and its decision to stop UK beef crossing its territory, which is a vital route into Spain and Italy.I should be grateful if the statement could be followed by a short debate as provided for under Rule 37.The Commission agreed that British beef is safe. Scientific evidence proves that British beef is safe. The French Government, as far as I know, has no new evidence. Stringent safeguards are in place in the UK, yet one state – France – is going to opt out of the Commission ruling. It will damage the internal market if this state of affairs is allowed to continue; it will damage the credibility of the Commission and it will further damage British farmers.BSE has already cost the UK GBP 1.5 billion in lost exports. British farmers have been patient for the last two-and-a-half or three years during the negotiations. They have abided by the rules. They have even destroyed animals with no sign of BSE. At long last the beef ban was lifted. Now they are confronted with a new attack on their industry. We need an urgent statement and debate. I hope time can be made for this.
Mr President, I welcomed Commissioner Patten's speech, in particular his words about his own personal experience, and the absurdity of a punishment which is becoming increasingly less effective in the world as a deterrent in the minds of a growing number of citizens.Europe has certainly made substantial progress in its undertaking, with the formalisation of the rejection of the death penalty and the affirmation of the right to life in the Charter of Fundamental Rights, the forceful stipulation that any country wishing to join the European enlargement process must abolish the death penalty, the increase in intervention measures in respect of relations with third countries under the human rights clause and, lastly, the Council's prioritisation of the moratorium on the use of the death penalty as a common foreign and security policy action.When our international institutions, when the AJA Tribunal is faced with the sentence inflicted on the criminal Tadic – who is guilty of heinous crimes – and we compare these appalling crimes with any of the incidents in any countries, including democratic countries, as a result of which thousands of people are now waiting on death row, we may be able to appreciate the fact that what had been a purely European characteristic, that is the rejection of capital punishment, may – in political time, not historical time – spread until it becomes the clearly predominant political, institutional and humanitarian modus operandi throughout the world. This is the inspiration behind the new Europe of the start of the third millennium.This, Mr President, is why it is necessary for the Commission – and I would ask Commissioner Patten to give an incisive response – to make good use of these amendments to the European Union's budget that were tabled by our Group of the European Liberal Democrat and Reform Party in respect of the 2000 budget. Indeed, there can be no institutional initiative in this field without close cooperation with non-governmental organisations. I therefore propose, Commissioner, that you consider the possibility of Europe establishing a European Day of protest against the death penalty: this would make a substantial contribution to generating a universal consciousness from that cradle of civilisation which Europe is and wishes to remain.(Applause)IN THE CHAIR: MR PROVANVice-President
Mr President, I also wish to express my thanks to Mr Chichester, the rapporteur, for his significant work in preparing this matter. As has already been stated here on previous occasions, the EU has only limited possibilities to interfere with the terms and conditions of energy supply. Its chances of influencing the matter are restricted to the demand, and hence to the promotion of energy saving in the construction and transport industries. The most important things, therefore, are to ensure the diversity of energy sources and an even distribution of suppliers of energy. The availability of energy on a local level enhances the reliability of energy supplies, reduces dependence on imported energy and provides employment opportunities. In particular, research into and the use of renewable energy sources must be promoted.Responsibility for assuring the reliability of energy supplies is primarily a matter for national energy policies. In order to enhance the reliability of supplies, it is also necessary to enter into agreements with other countries. Also, energy projects that serve common European objectives are an excellent way of putting into specific terms the EU’s policies on the Northern Dimension.
President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President, President of the Commission, it has been said that this summit too was full of so-called decisions. I wonder what the people of Europe think of an organisation that, summit after summit, continues to take decisions with which the Heads of Government do not even get their own ministers to comply. Is there any proportion between costs and outcome? President Berlusconi, you had an opportunity to put a stop to these meaningless resolutions from the summits, and I regret that you did not take it. I also wish to emphasise that I have criticised previous presidencies on the same account. I believe it is important for the summits to be fundamentally reformed so that people regain their confidence in the EU and its institutions.President Berlusconi, you emphasised Christian values in your speech. One of the Christian values I believe that everyone, irrespective of their denomination, should profess is that of alleviating suffering as much as possible. I am therefore concerned about the many ongoing attempts to halt new research in genetic engineering in which all types of stem cells are made use of. To promote that research is to reduce suffering.
Mr President, the threat of a punishment must always be so credible that the punishment does not need to be carried out. The massive military presence around Iraq, and Bush's rhetoric, have finally had their effect on Saddam. Suddenly he is cooperating with the inspections and destroying weapons he said he did not have. It is therefore naive to think that Saddam could have been called to order with diplomatic pleas alone.Apart from Saddam, Bush himself has unfortunately begun to believe in the military threat to such a degree that he feels he can no longer find a way out of it. Withdrawing a quarter of a million servicemen from the Iraq region while Saddam is still in charge is a disgrace for the American president that he wants to prevent in whatever way he can. To this end he is even trying to bribe members of the Security Council, in particular to make possible an attack in the near future. Bush and Blair have now become the prisoners of their own rhetoric and their diplomatic inability to mobilise sufficient support. With no green light from the Security Council, all that remains for them is the choice between two evils: to do nothing and consequently lose face or to take military action outside the UN with all the negative consequences that entails. A unilateral military intervention will lead to unprecedented instability and seriously impede the reconstruction of Iraq. While Saddam was himself destroying the rockets in Iraq, he was placing a bomb under the UN, NATO and the EU, enabled to do so by Western leaders acting irresponsibly.Since the fall of the Wall, the EU Member States have above all been pursuing their own interests and prestige and very little has come of a common foreign policy. European policy must consist of maintaining the pressure on Saddam and certainly there must be no headlong rush to war. We must be specific about what compliance we are expecting of the tyrant within a timeframe that the inspectors consider reasonable. Only the UN can ensure that Saddam obeys, and that the punishment does not need to be carried out.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the strategic goal of full employment established by the Lisbon Council has been achieved in some parts of the European Union while many others still have a long way to go. This not only raises a problem of cohesion – since it is not just a matter of compensating the less favoured areas – but also the problem of how to manage European development in the future, so as to promote the spread of development, and hence of employment, from the most favoured to the least favoured zones.In this regard, I call upon the Commission to combine its economic perspectives with identification of the territorial benefits to be had from the plan for European area development. I urge the Commission and the Union to pursue this ‘good’ full employment we want for Europe – ‘good’ in the sense of being capable of respecting environmental and social obligations – applying the method used up to now to drive forward the formation of the single market, with enlargement regarded as a valid part of this approach. Enlargement should not be seen just as a supplementary cost for the Union but as an opportunity to create wider market opportunities, where the method pursued so far can be developed, both by progressively liberalising the old markets – and I strongly welcome the invitation, which I believe we should extend to ourselves and to Parliament, to adopt new directives on procurement quickly, for example, and open up a huge market currently closed to European competition – and by preventing the new markets from creating a new monopoly situation as may happen in the case of telecommunications.For this purpose – both to liberalise the old markets and to prevent monopoly situations being created in the new markets – information can be very important and a bold strategy, helping the citizens participate in the process, can certainly be useful here.
Mr President, I shall keep it very brief. I am delighted that you have emphasised the ‘primacy of politics’. In the final analysis, this Parliament has grown from a paper tiger into a watchdog of democracy, and that is down to politics. In my view, communication and information are crucial in this connection. Information more so than communication. They are not the same. Communication is about bringing news. Information implies a dialogue with those to whom the information is directed. The dialogue must be open and objective, and should not degenerate into indoctrination and propaganda but should comprise communication and information. Sound information means that one has to present something of substance, that one has something to offer or something that one can pass on. It need not be perfect, but a dialogue is necessary to make any improvements.How will we deal with this? There are countless reports on this subject. I myself had the honour of being the author of one of the many that are stored in the dark recesses of this institution. There have been many reports, yet little has changed in the many years I have been in this Parliament. How will we tackle this? Could I make a suggestion, as we have tried all manner of things? Why do we not hold an open debate? You as representative of Parliament, along with those you select, you on behalf of Parliament along with the representatives of the media. Not with the intention to indoctrinate. I know how anxious the media is about propaganda, and with good reason. But simply an open dialogue to examine together how we can best serve the parliamentary, democratic culture, and hence Europe, a democratic Europe, for this is what is at stake in the final analysis.
The EU’s system for importing bananas – which the WTO panel declared to be discriminatory on 7 April 1999 – must be reformed. There is justification for showing consideration for banana producers in the ACP States and in the extremely peripheral areas of the Union, but there is no reason for special treatment in the field of trade.Import duties and production subsidies are incompatible with our liberal values. In our view, it is only through a system of free trade that long-term, sustainable, global economic development can be created. For that reason, the Commission’s proposal for a rapid transition to a system with fixed uniform rates of duty is a step in the right direction.- Lagendijk report (A5-0069/2000)Fatuzzo. – (IT) Mr President, it was with great pleasure that I voted for this measure on the communication from the Commission on the stabilisation and association process for countries of South-Eastern Europe. This is one of the measures adopted in this Chamber which I have most appreciated, for I am sure we all remember the serious problems which arose in this area just over a year ago during the NATO military intervention. I feel that the only way to prevent wars is precisely to be closely aware of the tangible problems of other peoples. In all probability, it is only this initiative and those which will be approved and supported by the European Parliament which will truly succeed in preventing disasters in this region and any other regions that find themselves in a similar situation.
Mr President, I too would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work. It is imperative that we regard the irrefutable fact that unemployment has fallen by 10.1% to 9.4% as being a positive step forward and that we also regard the employment policy embarked upon by the European Union with its four fundamental pillars in the same light while adding to this linguistic training and the issue of immigration.We also believe that we need to assess more thoroughly the creation of conditions at Community level whereby these processes can be monitored and regulated efficiently. We also believe that Europe can and must do more, so that the Europe of the euro will be able to function if we construct a social Europe, a Europe of solidarity and a secure Europe with more incisive macro-economic policies, linked to structural reforms which will stabilise and reorganise the States’ public finances.It is true that employment policies are national policies, but it is also true that they must now be reproduced at European level, because only through conciliation and social dialogue will we succeed in consolidating the European Parliament’s power on employment policy, and this is the policy that will enable Europe, finally and decisively, to have a political, as well as an economic definition.
Mr President, last year was a miserable year for Europe, and the challenge is now to restore the confidence in the institutions and in the agreements that they have concluded. This confidence will also be reflected in the turnout for the European Parliament elections in June.One way of restoring this confidence is more transparency and democracy. We are looking for a new President of the Commission, and we are looking for an independent, energetic person with the backing of a majority in the new Parliament. I would therefore ask the President of the Council to consider involving Parliament in the nominations of candidates, by, for example, having the political families put forward names. We should in any event get away from back-room decisions taken in the middle of the night.Secondly, confidence can be restored by effective intervention in cross-border problems. This is what the public expect from us. Major epidemics are a case in point. The fact that SARS has passed us by during previous epidemic crises is more down to luck than good judgment. A new SARS epidemic is looming and I am asking the presidency to take the initiative to ensure that the Public Health Ministers grant the Commission – in this case, Commissioner Byrne – far-reaching powers to take crisis management measures, such as uniform controls at airports, should this prove necessary.In any case, I am confident that this presidency can restore confidence in the institutions, and your inspired speech of today only encourages me in this.
Mr President, Commissioner, allow me firstly to make a very personal observation. The week before the Prestige accident, my party and I organised a conference on maritime safety in the Bay of Finland, that is to say on precisely those issues referred to by, for example, Mr Purvis. You can appreciate my feelings when I then suspected, and was finally able to have it confirmed, where the Prestige actually came from, and understood that the situation could have been precisely the same in the Bay of Finland as off the coast of Galicia. At the same time, we know that we can presumably expect the amount of traffic through the Baltic to increase tenfold.The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy has been closely involved in this issue. We are also trying to improve Parliament’s reputation. We perhaps had something to hide where the Erika package was concerned. The opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy also emphasises the importance of neighbouring countries’ subscribing to the same rules because, as Mr Purvis also pointed out, these tankers sail close to our coasts, even if they do not put into EU harbours.We also support the proposal for having 2010 as the final phasing-out year, a proposal that the Council had come up with and that we are now prepared to agree upon. We also propose that the inspection requirements be looked at. We should have liked to have seen the inspection requirements apply irrespective of age. We are now talking about 15 year-old vessels, but it is important for a vessel, irrespective of age, to be of a good class and standard and to be well maintained. Our experience shows that what the EU has agreed upon is in fact translated into the rules of the IMO. We saw this most recently in connection with the oil fund.What worries me is why we have not at this stage been able to adopt the proposal by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy that there be a paragraph stating that we must demand ice-strengthening. I want to ask the Commissioner why the Commission has set its face against our adding a paragraph introducing ice-strengthening requirements, in addition to the requirements for single hull vessels to be phased out and double hull vessels phased in.
Mr President, Commissioner, as a Scandinavian, I do not usually go in for flowery language, but I wish to thank Mr Whitehead and the Commission’s officials for the intensive work done so that we might quickly have this proposal turned into a reality. We have all worked in a spirit of how important it is to strengthen the consumer organisations and reinforce the objectives of consumer work. I therefore want to say thank you to Phillip.The previous speakers have already mentioned the situation in the candidate countries. It is for the new Europe that we are developing the consumer area. In this area, as in many others, I believe there is an old heritage we must combat. I believe that strong consumer organisations are extremely important for enabling people to participate and for giving them the opportunity to exercise influence. For those reasons too, approval is important so that the candidate countries become part of the required network.In Parliament’s amendments, we indicate the importance of genuinely integrating consumer issues into other areas. This has been an issue especially close to my heart. As MEPs, we see how strong the lobbying is in other areas. We must give the consumer the power to study, inform and share best practices. The next issues must be those of mobile telephone conversations, price fixing or the ways in which billing operates in different countries. I therefore think it important for us to highlight this issue.The previous speakers, especially the rapporteur and the Commissioner, spoke of the administrative procedures. The work we have done together – and I want to emphasise the word ‘together’ – may be genuinely groundbreaking in bringing about rapid procedures and quick responses in place of a situation in which applicants are constantly forced to communicate when there is no need to. I hope that the outcome of our work will serve as an example of better procedures.We in the committee proposed that the committee, mentioned in Article 15, should be disbanded. We knew that the Council would not perhaps accept the proposal. I nonetheless hope that the Commissioner, the Commission and all of us are agreed about following up the question of what the committee costs. Does it give value for money? In an enlarged EU, it may be extremely difficult to have large committees of this kind that decide about quite small funds. I hope that the Commission will genuinely look into what the committee mentioned in Article 15 will, in reality, cost.
Madam President, this is already the third time that we have discussed this topic and the Council and Parliament spent an exciting night bringing things to a conclusion. It will surprise no one that the discussion in our Conciliation Committee that evening was dominated by the judgment of the Court on the tobacco advertising directive. There are many legal aspects attached to this and the question is whether we can now be certain about all the legal aspects that were raised. No, of course not. After all, we were dealing with a different case with different provisions attached in that judgment by the Court, but we certainly believe that we acted in accordance with the spirit of the Court’s judgment, and no more could be expected of us. Agreement was reached on the export provision, so that from 2007 onwards the same criteria will apply to tar, nicotine and carbon monoxide as to products sold within the European Union. In that sense things have been brought into line with the judgment of the Court. I am also happy to see that this topic has now also been raised in the World Health Organisation. We have reached agreement on the publication of ingredients and on the common list of ingredients. An extraordinarily important and pioneering provision. Ultimately the internal market is best served by a common regime in the field of ingredients and testing, as is public health. It is also important from the point of view of a possible future assessment of less harmful tobacco products. In relation to the regulation of snuff, for example; it is no secret that I personally belong to the minority here who felt it could perfectly well have been sold in the European Union, but we shall come back to that in the report of the Committee at the start of the next parliamentary term and probably also in relation to other, less harmful tobacco products that are still being developed. This topic will definitely be a political challenge to us all. We have reached agreement on warnings. In our view there can be no question of a ban on tobacco products and whether one likes it or not smoking is an individual, adult decision, as long as one does not harm others, provided it is based on adequate information. The consequences of smoking are so serious that consumers must be properly warned and we are now going further – though to my taste still not far enough – in the direction of the Canadian legislation, which is more intelligent that what we have been able to achieve so far in the European Union. I am very gratified that Member States have agreed to the option of printing pictures if they so wish and call on the Commission, when it comes to more detailed regulation at the end of 2002, to look closely at what has been developed abroad, for example in Canada.Then there is the matter of misleading descriptions. Large cigarette manufacturers, such as Philip Morris, agree with what Parliament and the Council were trying to achieve on this point. Naturally a misleading description, whether a commercial brand or not, cannot be allowed on the market, but legally it is a difficult business, perhaps particularly when it concerns a word like “mild”. In the Conciliation Committee we finally opted for the formulation proposed by the Council which is based on the cosmetics directive and I believe that in so doing we have chosen a sensible path that is also legally sound.I should like to take this opportunity to express my appreciation of the Council. Although the Portuguese Presidency worked on this in the preliminary stages and the Swedish Presidency in the final phase, I have the greatest appreciation for the French Presidency, which played a crucial role on this point and also for the Commissioner. Perhaps I may for once breach protocol and also mention John Ryan who has been active for years in the Commission on this matter and has played a crucial part. My thanks also to the parliamentary delegation for their patience during this odd conciliation night and to Sabine Magnano and Klaus Beyer for their administrative support, but I should like to single out Renzo Imbeni, our delegation Chairman that evening, who dragged away our major points from the jaws of hell or at any rate from the jaws of the Council. I also believe that the participation of non-governmental organisations and of industry was positive. They were able to achieve a lot with their contribution. It was a remarkable conciliation. I have three concluding observations.In the first place, Parliament, the Commission and the Council gave a joint press conference which was a novelty and a positive experience. I should like to mention the rapid decision-making. In scarcely a year we managed to get this controversial and complex legislation carefully onto the statute book. Where are those slowly grinding Brussels and Strasbourg wheels that are always talked about?Finally, the final result is, I believe, better than either the joint position of the Council or the final text of Parliament. This shows that the codecision procedure with equal involvement of Parliament, despite its cumbersome nature, is nevertheless the best way of reaching decisions in this Union.
Mr President, I should like to thank the Commissioner for his very careful reply, which he relates very much to this particular question, the issue of Lloyd's. I should like to think of this in terms of two very general principles: firstly, the implementation of legislation by Member States and action by the Commission to ensure that that happens; secondly, the entitlement to information between Parliament and the Commission during such enforcement measures. I should also like to apply some common sense to those two principles. Looking with common sense at how this particular matter proceeded, one cannot but feel that something is not quite right, that there is a period of 20 years when nothing seems to happen and no implementation takes place.I am sorry, Commissioner, that your colleague, Commissioner Bolkestein is not here. I know that he shares our deep concern about implementation of legislation by Member States and making sure that it happens effectively so that the internal market, of which we are all so proud, works properly. However, if it takes a Member State over 20 years to implement a directive, and a Member State can carry on without doing that for such a long period of time, then common sense tells us that something is not right.I am greatly concerned – as I am sure others are – about the message that this sends out to acceding states on the eve of enlargement concerning the way we conduct our business and the way we expect Member States to adhere to Community law. It is all very well to say that there is no past incompatibility. As a lawyer, that sounds to me like a very nice, lawyer's answer. What we are looking for here are common sense answers and an answer to the question as to why a Member State can be so long in default and why it is that we, as Parliament, cannot get a simple answer to a simple question about that.(Applause)
Mr President, the failure of the IGC may well lead to a failure of Europe because, although it is a marvellous historical goal, we all know that enlargement to 25 Member States without majority voting will be a nightmare: a nightmare in which Europe will be divided, paralysed and impotent in a globalised world.The final report that Mr Berlusconi gave here for three-quarters of an hour – 82 points ‘with one exception’, which must be the success of the IGC – is a clumsy way of giving us an extra dose of misery. Unfortunately, he is once again concerned with distancing himself from a mark of failure rather than pointing out the right road on behalf of a great founding country like Italy.Mr Prodi has honestly expressed the extent of the failure and the risks associated with it, and has started to mark out a possible route for the future. I say yes, Mr Prodi, to an initiative by pioneer States for a Europe that in no way underrates the importance of this broad Union extending from Portugal to the Baltic States, but you know we have to move towards an effective, democratic integration of the Community based on the results of the Convention. Yes, then, to starting out with those who share the results of the Convention – an honourable compromise – on the new European Community path. In this way all 25 can be helped to reach the goal. This is the objective around which we should and can unite as from tomorrow.
Mr President, the four chief objectives which the EU countries’ governments endorsed in November of last year and which were mentioned earlier here today were as follows: that care should be taken to ensure that it is worthwhile working and guaranteeing oneself a secure income; that pensions should be guaranteed and pension arrangements made sustainable; that social integration should be promoted; and that sustainable, high-quality health care should be guaranteed. These are four goals which have been worded in such broad terms that everyone must be able to support them. Having a group of high-ranking officials as the focal point for the pooling of experience and for the coordination and evaluation of the ways in which social and labour market policies are being developed is also something we can all benefit from.The Commission’s communication, which we are discussing today and which was put by for a decision by the Council in November, is a well-balanced report on how we can obtain a more professional debate and more knowledge of the challenges faced by the Member States in the field of social policy over the next few years when we have ageing populations and are experiencing the effects of the enlargement of the Union. We now already have major social problems and major social costs to find from the public budgets, which is a problem for many Member States. If reforms are not got under way, we are in danger of eroding the economic basis of social policy, and a strong and competitive economy is now undoubtedly the most secure basis for effective social security. It is therefore only reasonable to put these subjects on the agenda.In the debate about coordination of social policy in the EU, we often use the expression social convergence. As liberals, we can support this concept when it means that we in the EU are to establish broad common objectives with which the individual countries then seek to comply by means of their own national social policies. It is not, therefore, about harmonisation but about common objectives. It is, of course, a fact that the EU countries have different ways of organising social policy. We have different traditions and there are differences in culture and, in spite of there being many points of similarity, there are also major differences between one country and another in the nature and extent of the social problems concerned. It is therefore important to emphasise that social policy is a national concern. National policy is, of course, subject to a number of common parameters. That is the case with minimum social entitlements, which are established by treaty. It is true in regard to guaranteeing the free movement of labour without loss of social entitlements. It applies to the fact of our having to coordinate our economies; and it applies in the case of economic cooperation. So coordination and cooperation are facts of life. But convergence should be about goals, not means.I should also like to thank the rapporteur, Jan Andersson, for his report and for his very constructive contribution to the attempt to reconcile different positions and to secure support for his report. I can support the report, but there are a few points which are not completely to my taste. I do not agree with the requirement that the Commission should intervene in regard to what is referred to as unfair competition between social and tax systems, if interference of this kind is to be used to stem the tide of new thinking and to restrict development and the process of making our social systems more efficient, or else to prevent a reduction in the unduly high tax burden in many EU countries. I am sceptical about the detailed regulations that might result from the Commission’s having to deal with the scope and quality of child care and care of the elderly, and I am sceptical about the value of a common poverty threshold. Dialogue and the coordination of social policy are to be commended, but we should not lump all nations together as if they were the same. There should be room for a multiplicity of solutions.
Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, first of all, I wish to express my and my group’s sympathy for everyone hit by the disaster.The disastrous floods in Central Europe have been, and remain, appalling. Something has happened to the climate. Imbalances in the frequency of drought and rainfall are becoming more and more common, and winds are becoming more and more violent. In Johannesburg, an attempt was made to find global solutions. The country which causes the most pollution per head of population – the United States – does not wish to participate. The way the world is at present, it is the EU which must now assume the leading role in bringing about a sound environmental policy.The President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Haarder, stated that this will affect our processes and decisions. I believe that that is the case. Major issues have arisen within the EU which have required common solutions and have welded countries and peoples together. That has applied in the cases of the Coal and Steel Union, agricultural policy, the internal market and Economic and Monetary Union. I am convinced that we must pull ourselves together in order successfully to cope with the world’s future environmental problems.The next major project for the European Union should be to create a common environmental policy that is both tough and directly binding upon countries and individuals. In that way, it might be possible to raise the standard without anyone’s being able to lower it again, and the EU would be given the opportunity to play a leading role when it came to improving the global environment. That is the most important issue for humanity and the EU combined.
Mr President, Commissioner, the annual legislative and work programme is an incredibly important tool for decision-making and planning here in Parliament. It is on this basis that we proceed when we prepare our work – work that has consequences for ourselves, for the parliaments of our Member States and for our citizens. We know how important it is that it should be possible to monitor the decision-making processes in the European institutions. That is the purpose of the work of reform in our Parliament. It is on President Cox’s agenda, and this ambition is the basis of the laudable work being done by Mr Corbett when it comes to reforming the methods of working.Increased openness and accessibility are also the basic ideas behind the Commission’s work on the White Paper on European Governance. Unfortunately, work on the annual programme has not always proceeded so well. In a majority of cases, Parliament has criticised the procedures. The programme has been late in arriving. The priorities have been unclear. There has been insufficient follow-up, and many proposals have been recycled. Parliament’s role in preparing the programme has been unsatisfactory, in spite of the fact that the framework agreement states clearly and unambiguously that the Commission must take the maximum account of the guidelines proposed by Parliament. Parliament has, however, responded with extremely long ‘shopping lists’ which have perhaps not always been realistic. Immediately before Christmas, when the Commission’s proposal was presented, Parliament chose, of course, not to regard it as a legislative programme on the grounds that it was a text with only general objectives.The development of the co-decision procedure makes it necessary not only for Parliament but also for the Council to play a greater role in preparing the programme, even though it is of course, as stated in the Treaty, the Commission which has the right of initiative. As the Commission takes more and more legislative initiatives, it may be difficult for Parliament to keep up, and we shall sometimes be blamed for legislation’s being delayed. It is therefore important that the Council and the two countries holding the presidency during the year should play their part in planning the annual programme so that it can be synchronised better.Now, following nine months of negotiations and a great many meetings, we have agreed upon how to improve the procedures. I believe that we have made a very great deal of progress in the best interests of ourselves, the institutions and the people. The agreement involves quite a long process involving staging posts, regular dialogue and checkpoints, as well as close cooperation and partnership. The year is to begin with a kind of ‘State of the Union’ debate for the coming year, involving all the institutions including the Council. It will be based upon a draft work programme prepared by the Commission and, during the spring, there will then be discussions between the Commission and the committees affected so that priorities within the relevant areas might be debated jointly. Those of us who sit on the committees and work with the issues on a daily basis naturally have a feeling for which issues are topical and for what supplementary legislation and what common positions are needed. By involving the committees at such an early stage, we shall be better prepared when the legislative proposal is, in fact, submitted, and the work can then proceed smoothly and easily.The agreement also includes a mid-term review of the ongoing legislative work, a feature I think is very much to be welcomed if a situation is to be avoided in which proposals are recycled. The forthcoming programme will then be taken stock of at the time of the Conference of Presidents. The Commission’s proposals will be presented in Parliament in November. All this is to be found in the appendix to the proposal we are to vote on tomorrow.The annual legislative programme is to be presented with reference to a calendar, to the legal base and to any budgetary implications. It is also important to think of the priorities and of the need for the principle of subsidiarity to have a major impact.These are obligations for the Commission, but they are also based upon Parliament’s taking responsibility and demonstrating self-discipline when it comes to the number of proposals we ask the Commission to take up. We cannot draw up long lists, but we must show that we know how to prioritise. We should also become better at appointing rapporteurs promptly. We have everything to gain from creating a good climate of cooperation with the Commission.To make it easier for the electorate, ourselves and the mass media to follow the legislative work, a common database should be set up showing who in the Commission and Parliament is responsible for a particular proposal. The database should also contain information about the calendar, budgetary implications and legal base. The database should be publicly available. I believe it should prove to be of very great help to our colleagues in the national parliaments.Mr President, I hope that, no later than in the course of the next few days, the Commissioners will begin to visit Parliaments’ committees so that a start can be made as soon as possible on following the agreed timetable and method of working. By changing the procedures in this way, I believe we can obtain a method of working and a legislative cycle which are more effective, more transparent and more comprehensible. It will then be possible to improve considerably European forms of governance.Finally, I want to thank Mrs de Palacio who has really made an effort to enable us to bring about an agreement. It is obvious that she has been a parliamentarian herself and understands Parliament’s problems and concerns. I should genuinely like also to thank the other political groups for cooperating with us in reaching this final result.
Mr President, I want primarily to concern myself with the proposal concerning the supplementary supervision of the financial conglomerates with which I had a lot to do in my job as shadow rapporteur of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party. First and foremost, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Lipietz, for the huge amount of work he has done in connection with Parliament’s debate of this proposal for a directive. Next, I should like to thank Mr Radwan and Mrs Villiers, with whom I have had very close contact during our work with a view to tomorrow’s vote. Last but not least, I should also like to thank Commissioner Bolkestein for his work on bringing about a genuine internal market for financial services.With the active participation of the Commission, we in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs have, where far and away the majority of points are concerned, found common solutions to the problems raised in different quarters. The background to the practical proposal is that we wish to secure stable financial markets in Europe. We want to avoid scandals along the lines of Enron. At the same time, however, there must be no more regulation than is necessary. What is most important, therefore, is to secure effective supervision to prevent financial conglomerates from using the same capital to consolidate their positions in several different places. I should like to express my support for the oral amendments to be tabled by Mr Radwan to Amendments Nos 44, 46 and 48 in connection with tomorrow’s vote. I appreciate the Commission’s also being able to accept the amendments tabled. For me, adoption of the proposal tomorrow will be further proof that the European Parliament accepts co-responsibility when necessary. I am a great believer in our not dragging matters out if possible solutions emerge. We have found those solutions here in Parliament, and so it is merely up to the Council to deliver the rest.
Mr President, for the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, the key test of Seville was the agreement on immigration and asylum which elevated discussion beyond the search for cheap newspaper headlines and into the core of the challenge. A casual reader of the newspapers in the run-up to Seville might have believed that the Prime Minister of Spain was playing Don José to Tony Blair's Carmen in a passionate but deadly delusion about using development aid as a weapon in the crackdown on illegal migrants. We, therefore, welcome the success of Prime Minister Verhofstadt and others in redressing the balance of the European Council's draft conclusions. In particular we are pleased that the Council recalled the importance of economic cooperation, free trade, development aid and conflict prevention in tackling the causes of illegal immigration. I applaud the Council's emphasis on providing incentives to developing countries to cooperate in the management of migration flows rather than on suspending development aid for non-cooperation.However, rather than simply setting new targets for achieving progress on immigration and asylum, Heads of State and Government would do better to stop clogging up the decision-making process with national initiatives and to back Commission proposals under the Community method. That means using qualified majority voting to ensure that decisions can be taken.Concerning the proposals for reform of the proceedings of the Council, it is all very well for Heads of State and Government to talk about introducing greater transparency into the workings of the Council. However, this will not be achieved merely by allowing cameras into the room for a ritual round-table debate and for the votes. We need to achieve real transparency by giving access to Council documents on the Internet, from when they are first discussed by officials right up to ministerial level. It is disgraceful that Council officials in the Secretariat are refusing to make Room documents and unnumbered documents publicly available.A rationalisation of the number of Councils is no doubt called for, but it would be far better for this to be done in conjunction – as the President of the Commission said – with similar moves in Parliament and in the Commission so that lines of accountability and responsibility are clear. I am also concerned that the abolition of the Development Council could be seen as a downgrading of the Union's role in development assistance, which must not be allowed to happen.Following the Barcelona Summit, I warned in this Chamber of the danger of a credibility gap opening up if the ambitious targets set for economic reform were not implemented. In particular I called for progress to be made towards an integrated financial services market. I, therefore, warmly congratulate the Spanish Presidency on securing a deal on the pensions directive – which had been blocked in Council since July of last year – as well as agreement on the market abuse directive, because behind the sound and fury over illegal immigration it is steady progress on technical but vital issues such as these which show the worth of a presidency.(Applause)
Mr President, at the height of the 2001 outbreak of foot and mouth disease the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party formulated three principles: how can we prevent such outbreaks from recurring, what are we to do if there is another outbreak and how can we pay for such outbreaks in future?On the first point: better border controls. We have heard that the Commission has issued new guidelines. I have paid particular attention when arriving back in Europe from time to time from another continent. To be honest, despite the newly announced measures I have not yet been able to detect much change. What exactly were the new measures?What are we to do if there is another outbreak? We took the view that the mass culling of healthy stock is not acceptable in future, which is why we fully support the conclusions of the report that prophylactic vaccination must be used. We went even further. In 2001 we submitted an amendment to the budget to ensure that the Commission was able to carry out research into better vaccines, marker vaccines against foot and mouth disease. We did not limit ourselves to foot and mouth disease by the way. It could extend to all infectious animal diseases.It is particularly disappointing to note that as of now, some two years after the amendment was submitted and carried, the Commission has still not begun this research. We are constantly given different explanations. It will happen. But it still has not happened. I should like to know why.Another point: what is to be done with the products of vaccinated animals? That strikes me as a huge problem. This has already been said by Mrs Corbey and by Mr Maat. The probability is that it will be more difficult to sell the products of those vaccinated animals, and that it will be at a reduced price. Will that also be covered by future compensation schemes, yes or no? What is the Commission proposing to do in this respect?Third point: how are we to pay for such outbreaks in future? In that respect we were lucky with the outbreak in 2001. There was sufficiency leeway in the agriculture budget. If calculations are correct there is considerably less slack in the agriculture budget. The euro is strong against the dollar and there will be very little leeway. If there were a new outbreak now, how would we pay for it? This was in fact why thesubmitted an amendment in 2001 calling for studies to be carried out in to insurance systems. In that respect the Commission did do its work. At the end of May we shall have a report on the subject. As rapporteur for the 2004 budget I myself made it one of my priorities. It is not acceptable that we should always leave the financing of such outbreaks to chance, according to whether there is money available or not. It must be put on a sound financial footing. I hope to be able to work that out in future in consultation with the Commission.The point about six months and three months is also essential for us and I therefore recommend that the plenary should accept the amendment of the Liberal and Christian Democrat groups on this.
Mr President, before I start I want to welcome you, honourable Minister, to the European Parliament and to its plenary part-session. At the same time I want to thank Commissioner Liikanen especially for his valuable co-operation. Your work with Parliament has been transparent, decent and honest.My own maiden task relates to the administrative course of the year 2000 budget, which affects more institutions than the Commission and the Council. The combined budget for these institutions is EUR 1,288 million. This is a 3.66% increase on last year’s budget. The addition is remarkably large though it is within the framework of the currently valid agreement between official bodies. The budget of the European Parliament does exceed the share agreed by Parliament itself in accordance with the gentleman’s agreement, which is 20% of category 5, because it currently stands at 20.3%. This naturally means that some pressure for cuts is directed at Parliament’s budget in the hearing.Recently, the European Parliament has observed great discipline in budgetary policy. In the staffing policy of the official bodies, great moderation has been observed, which meant that staff increases were less than in the previous five-year period. Between 1995 and 1999, Parliament’s staff increased by eleven people, and likewise, the staff of the Court of Justice increased by eleven people. The Court of Auditors received a considerable increase in resources in 1997, and it grew to have a total staff of 49 officials. The Committee on Employment and Social Affairs as well as the Committee on Regional Policy increased their staff by ten people. This has been achieved by employing a deliberate staff policy and by redeployment of tasks. We therefore have a good inheritance which we should cherish.Now a change is threatening this development, in which the EU is attempting to save taxpayers’ money. Different institutions are aiming to gain substantial increases in the number of posts. In connection with this, it must be stressed that the European Parliament is an important example. If the European Parliament attempts to increase its own staff considerably, this is a clear signal to other institutions. The same can be said concerning the promotion of grades. For this reason, the European Parliament has to create alignment in this budget hearing concerning the budgets for the next few years. Now it must be decided what kind of disciplined staffing policy the European Parliament wishes to follow, because it has quite a lot of authority in this matter. I want to stress that in leading the way for the other EU institutions, the European Parliament cannot evade its responsibility in this matter.My predecessor in this post, Edith Müller, drew attention to activity-based budgeting. Put concisely, Parliament directs money to official bodies for administration as a lump sum, and each official body can itself decide on the basis of its own unique organisation about the salary grades to be imposed and increases in those grades. I support this idea fully. The fact of the matter is that activity-based budgeting is the only sensible way of developing administration of staffing in the different institutions. It is not particularly sensible that the Committee on Budgetary Control and the President of the Council discuss the establishment of one C-grade when there are 1,776 C-grades in Parliament. It is much better to discuss allocations and grant them without analysing them in minute detail.This point of view also accords with the report from the Group of Independent Experts. It emphasises the need for personal responsibility as well as economic responsibility at lower levels of the official machinery. The only means of stressing this responsibility for improving the administration as well as for improving the supervision of the financial management is to delegate this power and responsibility to lower levels. At the same time, we must improve one urgent problem in particular, namely the slow payment transactions of the EU. It is incongruous and objectionable that the EU needs longer payment times than Member States or enterprises whose budgets can be many times the size of the EU budget when compared.The development of staffing policy must be regarded as an important part of EU policy. Activity based budgeting, the division of allocations and responsibility amongst lower levels of the administrative machinery, an efficient monitoring of monetary transactions as well as emphasising personal responsibility still require a lot of work. These issues must be clearly borne in mind when staffing legislation is reformed in the next few years. Therefore, and for this reason, it is possible to strongly agree with the Council’s demand that the Commission must set about preparing new regulations on staffing. With these thoughts in mind, I would like to consign the Council’s budget proposal to a reading in the European Parliament.
Mr President, Commissioner, the compromise reached in the legislative consultation between Parliament and the Council on the development of rail transport is one of the most important results to have been achieved in the transport sector during the Finnish and French presidential terms. I would like, on behalf of my group, to thank the rapporteurs, Mr Jarzembowski and Mr Swoboda, for their reports on the railway package as well as the Conciliation Committee, for their excellent work, which can be considered to be a breakthrough in this important issue.Our group is in favour of improved competitiveness in the railways and liberalisation. The legislative consultation between Parliament and the Council resulted in a satisfactory package that meant the job of developing rail transport could be tackled with vigour. The development of rail transport will remain on the agenda in the future, as the Commission is promising a second railway package to include further liberalisation and the aspect of safety. I consider the safety aspects of railways, as with other forms of transport, to be particularly important. The utilisation of the best technology that promotes safety, and its wider application, must become a key point of focus.The development of rail transport is vital to solve the problems of traffic congestion. It will ease the problem of both road and, furthermore, air traffic congestion. At the same time, however, we have to ensure that the trans-European transport networks also extend to more sparsely populated and remote regions. As has been stated here, environmental considerations also powerfully advocate the development of the railways. In the future, we will have to carefully observe how this railways package will be implemented in practice, and there must be further liberalisation in the light of the experience we gain from that. Special attention has to be paid to the coordination of different forms of transport as well as the overall functioning of the network.
Mr President, Commissioner, for five centuries of European history, the Canary Islands have always enjoyed special consideration in terms of shaping their presence in the Spanish and European worlds.In fact, when the Kingdom of Spain acceded to the European Community in 1985 the door was left open for an amendment of the status of the European model for the Canary Islands. In 1991, when Regulation 1911/91 was approved, we experienced Community adaptation with regard to the application of the provisions of Community Law in the islands.At that point a transitional period of ten years was set so that the integration of the economy of the Canary Islands into the Community would not be traumatic for some local production sectors and, de facto, amongst other things, a tax on production and imports, the APIM, was established with a view to protecting the integration of small basic Canary Island industries into the Community Customs Area.The said tax, which protected local industry in relation to imported goods, would be gradually dismantled between 1995 and the end of 2000. Curiously, this removal of the APIM has not had the desired effect amongst the sensitive industries in the Canary Islands and therefore the Spanish authorities, the Canarian authorities and the economic operators affected have requested that the Community authorities amend Regulation 1911/91 in order to stop the removal of the APIM until June 2000, which the European Commission appreciates.Nevertheless, some of us, as Members from the Canary Islands, as well as considering it reasonable to extend the validity of this tax in accordance with the Commission’s proposal, have requested by means of amendments that it affect the most sensitive products, all the sensitive products produced in the Canary Islands.We also request that this customs approach be applied to a new tax with a structure similar to the old APIM, with the aim of incorporating it into a package of specific measures of a fiscal nature which the Council, on the proposal of the Commission, must implement next year – as Mr Ripoll y Martínez de Bedoya and Mr Medina Ortega have just said – by means of the proposed permanent statute for the outermost regions – which include the Canary Islands – in implementation of article 299.2, which provides for differentiated treatment, as you know, with regard to the application of the provisions of the Treaty.This very week the Autonomous Parliament of the Canary Islands, during a political debate on this issue, unanimously approved an agreement which includes fiscal measures and asks Europe to provide for the establishment of a tax similar to the APIM.Congratulations to Mr Medina Ortega on his report and on his receptiveness to the amendments presented.
Mr President, Commissioner, the European Union is concluding its process of enlargement and I believe it is no coincidence that today’s debate has been held in parallel with the follow-up debate of the Intergovernmental Conference which should lead to a European Constitution, because I believe that the two should be inseparable.In the one minute available to me I will refer to the report presented by Baroness Nicholson of Winterbourne on Romania. I believe it is a very well executed and exhaustive report on the problems existing in that country. It highlights the need for that country to make progress in compliance with the law and to combat corruption, as well as the need to strengthen the rule of law and respect for minorities. I am referring in particular to the Hungarian minority of more than one million inhabitants in Romania and also, naturally, to the Roma minority.With regard to the problem of abandoned children and adoptions, I believe the Commissioner’s response has been clear: the well-being of children must govern this process.I believe that the report can be a positive stimulus so that Romania will continue along the path it has taken.
Mr President, it is not often that I completely agree with my colleague in the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, Mr von Boetticher, but this time I agree with him that we need a national choice regime to allow opt-out on e-mails and I am speaking against theamendments.There is one great myth that has gripped theand that is that spam is the same as unsolicited e-mail. I am afraid to say, Commissioner, that the Commission is at the root of this confusion. In your original proposal you said that spam equals unsolicited e-mails. It is not true. I am afraid the spammers who are already breaking the law are going to carry on breaking the law. Mrs Paciotti, you will continue to get spam!I support the opt-out on two grounds. The first is that opt-in will unjustifiably harm both business and charities. Big American firms can afford TV advertising, press, billboard and so on. We are going to damage small- and medium-sized European firms for whom commercial e-mail provides a legitimate way into e-commerce. It is going to put them at a disadvantage. It is going to put charities at a disadvantage and studies show that people do not mind receiving them. They will not opt out even if they could. But of course it is human nature not to opt in to get them. There is also a misunderstanding about the civil liberties implications. Under opt-out, it is very easy to show that you have opted out and reputable senders have no interest in ignoring your request because they will just irritate you.Opt-in is superficially pro-consumer, but you would have to prove that you never opted in, which is actually more difficult. Finally, under an opt-in regime, people might opt to receive mailings from organisations that could be embarrassing for them, such as gay organisations when they did not wish to come out, or they could be open to malicious abuse. If they opted in to get mailings from subversive political movements they could find themselves attracting unwarranted surveillance from the police, for instance. Thehas got it wrong and for once Mr von Boetticher is right.
Mr President, every parliament needs a Richard Corbett – a man whose knowledge of and commitment to the Rules of Procedure is beyond compare and, although my expertise is less than his, I fully share with Mr Corbett the belief that good rules make for sound democracy. The reform package that we have before us is not revolutionary, but it amounts to a sensible and incremental change which will contribute towards making this Parliament far more mature, efficient and transparent.I trust that the conservatism that is sometimes displayed by representatives of the PPE andGroups on this question will not, at this late stage, hinder the drive towards reform. That would be an incredibly poor signal to send out to the Convention and would seriously weaken the standing of our parliamentary delegation.Theputs great stress on trying to make plenary sessions livelier. That is why we propose an amendment to make the 'catch-the-eye' procedure mandatory rather than voluntary, along with another amendment to ensure that it is practical to interrupt speakers without penalising their speaking time. We need more drama in this place, more critical exchanges and a better balance between the necessary privileges of the party groups and the rights of individual members to express themselves.
Mr President, the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party also wants to say that we very strongly support the initiatives you have put in place in the personnel area, Mr Kinnock. It is no easy task you have embarked upon, and it is therefore important for Parliament to offer its full support. It has, of course, been a widespread feature of society over the last few years that organisations have been obliged to re-think the way they organise their work in order to maintain competitiveness and exploit the opportunities offered by modern technology and public administration and, in so doing, give the electorate full value for their tax contributions. Moreover, it is precisely the electorate that has a lot of difficulty understanding why the EU’s institutions maintain such a rigid and old-fashioned personnel policy in which promotions are made on the basis of very formal criteria rather than on the basis of effort. There is no grass-roots understanding of why EU employees do not have to meet the demands for fresh thinking, flexibility and adaptation that apply in the rest of society.In that connection, I should like, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, to support the Commission’s proposal for the linear career structure which has been mentioned quite a few times this evening and in which promotions are made on the basis of ability and effort. I should also like to regret the fact that, in a letter to the President of the Commission, Mr Prodi, the President of the European Parliament in actual fact went against Parliament’s own views on this point, as expressed in the Harbour report. Moreover, I hope that this has not created too much in the way of difficulties for the Commission in the negotiations. It is vital that the Commission’s reforms should involve a personnel policy that rewards commitment, hard work and adaptability, and that is something we must support. Against that background, I shall look forward to the Commission’s compromise proposal for a career structure. I should also like to acknowledge the Commissioner’s pointing out what is creating the problems in Heading 5. I think that remark was rather apposite.
Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for the answers I have been given. I have just one more question.When the President-in-Office of the Council speaks of the exceptional circumstances in Italy and of this not having to create a precedent, I would ask if Italy has now itself implemented the common rules so that, form now on, the Italian milk producers too pay a special duty for exceeding the production quotas.
The annual legislative programme is the most concrete manifestation of the European Commission's key constitutional and political power, namely the exclusive right of initiative. Such power must at all times be rigorously justified and clearly explained. Yet this year's work programme, as in all previous years, does not provide detailed justification for each of the multitude of new measures proposed. A 15-page general summary does not exactly do justice to the 500 initiatives cited in the annex.In future, the  will therefore insist that there is clear justification for, and specialised parliamentary debate on, all measures announced in the work programme. In particular, we will be looking for evidence that each new proposal has been properly tested against the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality and we will be looking for sector-specific debates in the European Parliament's own specialised committees. In other words, it is now high time for a comprehensive overhaul of the somewhat antiquated way in which this crucial programming document is developed and debated in future.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should first of all like to congratulate Mr Graça Moura warmly on his initiative in discussing the role of education in relation to culture and its dissemination, and, schooling, being compulsory across Europe, is a good instrument to bring culture, including common European culture, to citizens of the future.Education can play a significant role in this and make the parents, and with them the children, aware of what culture has to offer. Europe is not only an economic project but also, above all, a cultural project; what unites us is culture and cultural diversity. Moreover, I think that it is in the interest of enlargement that the different perspectives of culture are discussed; the accession countries have a different view of our history, and there is still a long road ahead of us before we can all acknowledge and recognise what we have in common. I would like to point out, though, that education is, of course, a matter of national concern. We in Europe may be able to make recommendations and provide information about European culture, but it simply is not up to the EU to do as some of us are proposing and force the Member States to include this information in their curricula. My group will certainly distance itself from that.I do share Mr Graça Moura's view that the emphasis within education should not only lie on the academic subjects, but that due consideration should also be given to creative subjects. In that respect, I should like to stand up for music education, including classical music and opera. Both boast a long tradition in Europe, but are more or less disregarded in schools.In addition, access to culture is important. Children who grow up in families where little is done about culture have difficulties. Ideally, parents should adopt the role of guides, but schools can also play an important role in this. I should therefore like to point out that schools should involve the parents. In that way, education in creative subjects can receive additional support, and far more interest in culture be generated.
Mr President, after years of work on this report, we have now arrived at what I hope is a final position in Parliament. We largely have Mr Bowe to thank for this. The rapporteur has done a fantastic job. In this connection, I want to congratulate him on the report.Let us just remember that genetic engineering provides humanity with new, unguessed at opportunities. Just as always in the past, however, new knowledge also entails new risks and increased responsibility. It is important that we be aware of the risks and accept our responsibility. This applies both to environmental issues and to ethical considerations. At the same time, it is important to make it clear that, when it comes to improving people’s health and guaranteeing sustainable production of more food for a growing world population, we must not reject any form of science. Instead, we must make use of science. I would therefore simply urge that we make our decision in accordance with the proposal before us today.
Mr President, the principle of prevention being better than cure applies before anything else. It is one of the tasks of the Temporary FMD Committee under the dynamic leadership of Mrs Redondo Jiménez to look into this and to publish a report on this subject later on in the year.Every attempt should now be made, however, to prevent FMD from being imported. The outbreak in South Korea is now in the limelight accidentally because that is where the World Cup is being held. Many supporters travel to that destination. Some return and some do so much sooner than they had wanted, and there is thus a risk of them bringing the FMD virus with them.As Dr Kindermann rightly pointed out, however, travellers and tourists are already returning from Africa and Asia every day, where FMD, with its many varieties, is a common occurrence.The big question is what the European Commission and the Member States have done since the most recent major outbreak last year in order to protect the external borders more effectively. The daily traveller has noticed no difference at all since then. Despite this, the latest FMD outbreak incurred billions´worth of damage to the European economy. Better border control is also expensive, of course, but much cheaper than what we have had to spend in the wake of the FMD outbreak. Financially, it is an extremely profitable investment. We have to model ourselves on the United States, Japan, Australia and New Zealand and impose heavy fines on imports of foodstuffs from countries that, in terms of infectious animal diseases, are in the risk area.
Madam President, should these reports be serious then they certainly deserve a quorum. What I will do is to press my point of order.
Mr President, I had not followed the last report in any detail but if Commissioner Wallström is in the same sort of mood as Commissioner Bolkestein, I am glad I am not tabling any amendments today.On a complete change of note, a few weeks ago I was reading to my daughter, Kate, from A Christmas Carol by the 19th-century British author Charles Dickens. Scrooge sat in his counting house, he wrote. 'The city clocks had only just gone three, but it was quite dark already and candles were flaring in the windows of the neighbouring offices like ruddy smears upon the palpable brown air.'It must be a great cause for cheer in European cities today that we no longer have to breathe that 'palpable brown air'. It is a sign of environmental progress and achievement that air quality now is better than it has been for centuries.But there is more yet to be done, and in its Clean Air for Europe programme the Commission has identified particulates and ozone as two priorities for action.Ozone pollution contributes to the premature death of tens of thousands of people each year; it causes breathing difficulties, coughs, headaches and eye irritation. The World Health Organisation has not been able to identify a threshold below which there are no effects.It can also damage vegetation, reduce crop yields and stunt the growth of forests and, like acid rain, it can eat into and destroy the fabric of buildings and works of art.And so we have this draft directive to address the problem. It started out as a remarkably weak proposal, the key element of which was to set targets for 2010 for the maximum number of exceedances above WHO guidelines, but these targets would not have been binding on Member States. It also called for the preparation of short-term action plans to deal with acute problems and for more public information and health alerts.During the course of the past two years, Parliament has been able to use its codecision powers to give this legislation some teeth. We have strengthened the public's right to information. We have made it easier for recalcitrant countries to be named and shamed into improving their performance. We have ensured that damage to materials is included amongst the criteria for consideration. We have re-emphasised our wish to see long-term reductions in ozone levels achieved by 2020 in line with the National Emissions Ceilings Directive proposals.But above all, we have addressed the issue of the non-binding short-term targets. Instead of Member States having to work to achieve these 'as far as possible', which was the original proposal, we have insisted that effective measures shall be taken unless the targets cannot be achieved by 'proportionate measures'. I want to emphasise that we agreed this wording because both the Commission and our own legal services advised us that it would make the provisions of the directive enforceable and that Member States could be taken to the European Court of Justice if they failed to take such measures. In other words, we have used our codecision powers to transform a statement of good intent into a legally binding commitment.Even so, the European Environmental Bureau has criticised us, asking: 'Why do we need a directive at all if the 2010 targets are not fully binding?' But this misunderstands the nature of ozone pollution. It is hugely transboundary. While peak exceedances are falling across Europe, the average level is continuing to rise, almost certainly as a result of pollution generated far from our shores.I do not believe that Spain, or Italy, or Germany, or any of us should face the prospect of legal sanctions because they are being polluted from China. That would not be fair and it would not be realistic. I want Member States here to be required to do all that they can realistically to meet the targets, no more and no less.I think that 'palpable brown air' gave a lot of character to the story of Scrooge. But it is not appropriate now. Perhaps I will ask my daughter, Kate, if she will write a 21st-century version featuring clean air.However, with the assistance of the Commission and the last Belgian Presidency, Parliament has been able in the meantime to use its negotiating powers to turn a simple wish list into a requirement for our various governments to take action which will significantly improve air quality across Europe.We have secured greater changes and a more ambitious directive than we could reasonably have expected when the draft was first proposed.We can be proud of what we have achieved.
Mr President, Commissioner, within the global framework of relations between the European Union and Morocco, I would like to highlight, on the occasion of this oral question on the fisheries agreement which we are dealing with today, the regional dimension of that agreement. I refer to a Community region, European politically speaking but African geographically speaking, which is called the Canary Islands and is situated on the Atlantic flank opposite Morocco.In recent years, including Spain’s time as a democracy, we have experienced various situations where fishing has always been an unresolved issue between the parties because of the contentious issue of defining our territorial waters in relation to the neighbouring continent of Africa.Nevertheless, we have recently managed to take cooperative positions, by means of the Morocco-European Union agreements, despite having other unresolved matters, such as agriculture (tomatoes), the environment (nuclear energy policy) and the Saharan referendum, which affects us significantly from a global point of view.In fact, the Committee on Agriculture and Fisheries of the Spanish Senate has begun a visit to the Canary Islands in order to directly familiarise themselves with the problems facing the primary sector: agriculture and fishing.The President of the Government of the Canary Islands has also expressed his desire to visit Morocco in order to hold a dialogue and often a direct channel of communication with the Moroccan Government, along the lines of the good neighbourliness which should characterise the relations between two neighbouring and civilised peoples, since frequently the viscosity of reality – as Mr Obiols said so well the other day during the debate in Brussels in relation to the common destiny of Europe and Morocco – does not always permit the most appropriate type of action.We trust that peace and stability will reign in our Atlantic area and we have a good opportunity to use the fisheries agreement or other European instruments for transnational cooperation to achieve this.I hope that Morocco will fulfil its international obligations, as indicated in the talks held last week in Brussels by the Moroccan authorities. In any event, I hope that the diplomacy of the European Commission will adequately defend the general interests of the Community fishermen who are affected by this future fisheries agreement between the European Union and Morocco.Lastly, I would like to remind you of a Spanish saying – which I believe is relevant today – which says: “he who wants to eat fish, Commissioner, must get his breeches wet”. For this reason there are many of us here, Mr Fischler, who want to convince you of the social and economic importance of renewing the European Union-Morocco fisheries agreement.
Mr President, as we know, Turkey’s relations with the European Union have been the cause of many opinions being expressed lately. It is self-evident that the EU cannot initiate real negotiations for accession to the European Union with a country which does not fulfil the Copenhagen criteria. Respect for human rights and minorities is the basis of European cooperation, and countries which do not understand this are not welcome in the Union. But is the EU for that reason to turn its back on Turkey in as many contexts as possible? There are Members of this Parliament who think so. I do not share that attitude. If we, in the EU, have the opportunity to improve democratic conditions in Turkey, we should seize it. We have such an opportunity now with the recommendation concerning Turkey’s participation in the Socrates and Youth for Europe programmes.At the Conference of Presidents 14 days ago, Mr Prodi attached just such importance to the EU’s working for a situation in which Turkey respects the Copenhagen criteria and said that the EU ought to initiate a closer political dialogue with Turkey. I view the Socrates and Youth for Europe programmes as natural links in this closer political dialogue, a dialogue which will have great importance for the development of democracy in Turkey. In a democratic society, legislation and institutions should naturally be democratic but, in order for them to be so, the citizens of the country concerned must think and act like democrats. That does not come automatically. We can see this in the history of Europe. Contact and exchange with democratic countries, especially between young people, provide the most fertile soil for democracy in countries which do not have real democratic traditions. The Socrates and Youth for Europe programmes increase young students’ opportunities for exchange and for moving between one country and another. They also help raise levels of education. The programmes will further the process of democratisation in Turkey and help ensure that, in time, the country can become an integral part of our partnership.Mr President, all democratic parliamentarians ought to be able to vote for this recommendation.
Protecting intellectual property rights is an important issue and so I applaud Mrs Fourtou for her report.However, I take the view that there is no possibility of providing truly effective protection of intellectual property rights if the purchase of counterfeit products is allowed to go unpunished. The demand created by the consumer in this respect can only serve to stimulate the production of counterfeit products.It is only worth drawing up rules and regulations if they are workable and actually have an effect.With this aim in mind, I have tabled an amendment that makes the possession of counterfeit and pirated products punishable as far as the consumer is concerned, with certain provisos. This regulation will have a preventive effect because it will immediately bring about a fall in the demand for counterfeit products. Following extensive consultation, Amendment No 8 has been submitted on behalf of the  Group, the PPE Group and the.It is possible, in this connection, to draw a clear comparison in criminal law, with the handling of stolen goods. Not only is stealing things against the law; consumers who acquire stolen goods are also held responsible. This is only right and proper to my mind. After all, a ruling of this kind would have the desired preventive effect and there would be no risk of having to set up an additional supervisory body to oversee the effects of this ruling.
Mr President, like other Members here today, I have been lobbied extensively about this directive and I have been impressed by the degree of support – or at least the support in principle – for it. Environmentalists regard it as a holy grail, the means by which the polluter pays principle can be put into concrete form. Industry representatives have told me that they too agree with the principle and the insurance industry has said that it can make it work, so long as it is introduced gradually and they have time to cost it properly.So why does this House, and my group too, find itself so very divided over an issue about which everyone seems to agree? It seems that the principle is fine so long as it is never turned into practice. In this instance I regard myself as a pragmatist, I want to ensure that the legislation is workable and does not impose crippling burdens on industry or on agricultural producers. That is one reason why I oppose the introduction of joint and several liability. If there is a danger to the environment, then someone has to pay and when the polluters can be clearly identified, then they should be first in line.All organisations should, above all, be very conscious of the need to take measures to prevent damage in the first place. I believe the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market has not done this House justice. It has taken positions which are not only minimalist but actually retrograde, and which weaken the Commission's proposals. This House must make changes. I do not agree with altering the legal base. We should extend the definition of environmental damage to safeguard special habitats and species. We should take the chance to put pressure on Member States that have failed to ratify the international marine conventions. We should give citizens the right to go to court directly to prevent environmental damage or to seek redress.None of this is very radical. We have all expressed concern about the damage done to our environment by human activity. This measure is one way in which we can start to do something practical to protect it and to put all our fine words into real effect.(Applause from the left)
Mr President, we can very often be proud of the work that we – as distinct from the Council and the Member States, for example – do to turn the Lisbon agenda into a reality. We cannot, however, be particularly proud of our work on this occasion. Since the Commission put forward its proposal, it has taken us 22 months to arrive at the first reading and, just as Mr Harbour stated earlier, clarification is required to prevent those of our fellow MEPs who are less familiar with our procedures from being confused during the vote.I wish to support a lot of what Mrs Gebhardt said in her speech. At the same time, I wish to take the opportunity to congratulate her on her birthday next week. We cannot perhaps all be with you, but I hope that you have a splendid day and that we can hear all about it.Listening to the debate on these issues, you often get the feeling that every country has the world’s best education system. One of the biggest advantages of being here in the European Parliament is perhaps that of learning a certain humility in this respect. I have deliberately devoted a lot of time to the Committee on Petitions, which also deals with citizens’ complaints, because I agree with Mr MacCormick that there are problems for different types of teacher, something that also applies to crane operators from different countries. I myself have, for example, worked for a long time with a crane operator, Mr Holmström, from the Swedish-speaking Åland Islands. He has not succeeded in obtaining recognition in Finland for the crane operator’s examination he took in Sweden. Nyland’s worker protection district has always opposed his doing so, and I believe that many of you are surprised that there are such problems between Finland and Sweden, two countries that nonetheless have a very great deal in common with each other. This is an example of how people believe that they themselves have the best education system of all.At the same time as wishing to thank the Commission for its proposal for a new directive in the field of the internal market and services, I wish to sound a word of warning. We must not again act in a way that makes it simpler for companies than for individuals to move across our borders. Far too often, the result of our action is that individuals are not given access to freedom of movement and the internal market in the way that we should desire. As we heard earlier, our group will support the Commission’s proposal in many respects. We also want to have a flexible directive but, unlike some of the other groups, we do not want the annexes to form part of the text. I am, however, pleased to see that regulations concerning language requirements are being introduced that are more precise than those put forward by the Commission.
Madam President, the proposal which I have made and I shall repeat is that we should consider holding the debate at 15.00 hrs followed by the urgency debate, followed by votes on the report, other reports that are completed in debate and urgencies this afternoon.(Applause)
Madam President, I would like to inform you that in July this year, in accordance with Article 21 of the Treaty on European Union, I tabled a question to the Council of Ministers with regard to the Sahara referendum and also to some statements made by Mr Solana, the European Union’s representative for Foreign Policy.A few weeks ago some EU Member States in the United Nations debated the common EU position on the Sahara. Curiously, France distanced herself from the Belgian presidency’s proposal and demanded that the line be adopted as set out in the response that the Council of the European Union gave me personally on 10 October. To date, I have received no such response. There was even talk of a diplomatic incident, of a crisis between Spain and France, and between Spain and Morocco.I would like to say two things for the record: firstly, it has never been my intention to create a diplomatic incident between Spain and France, nor between Spain and Morocco. And secondly, I would like to express my concern at the lack of transparency shown by the Council to this Parliament, for I have had no official answer to my question.
We are about to discuss the subject of reforming the Commission and you will recall, Madam President, that at the beginning of the last session, I raised with you the question of whether, in the interests of openness and transparency, the Members’ register of interests could be made more available to the public by being published on the Internet. You promised Parliament you would raise this subject with the Quaestors that very evening.I wonder if you are now in a position to confirm to Parliament that the Quaestors have agreed in principle that the register should be published on the Internet and, if so, whether you will personally set them a deadline – perhaps 1 April – for doing so.
I understand the technicalities and thank the Minister for that. But would the Council be in favour of repealing Article 296 of the EC Treaty, in other words, disallowing the exemption from the single market provisions and so introducing competition into defence procurement?
The  Group fully supports Mr Pirker in his insistence that Article 202 of the Treaty should be followed in its general rule that implementation powers for this regulation should be conferred on the Commission. He is absolutely right to argue that the Commission is in a stronger position to take an impartial view which does not bend to accommodate specific national interests and therefore it is arguably more capable of drawing up adequate data-protection safeguards.Secondly, although Parliament may have its arguments with the Commission from time to time, we do have a much better chance of exercising democratic supervision if the Commission has the implementing powers than if the Council has them. This is because the regulatory committee procedure, coupled with the interinstitutional agreement, entitles Parliament to receive draft implementing measures. And when – rather than if – we achieve codecision in this area, this will enable Parliament to require the Commission to re-examine the measures if the implementing measures are exceeded.We would be foolish, as a Parliament, to rely on the Council’s goodwill rather than on rights which we possess if the Commission has the implementing powers. That is why my group will abstain on some of the amendments of substance which would alter the substantive details of the Eurodac regulation.My group supported these amendments when the focus was on the substance but at this stage it is better to concentrate on the issue of whether the Commission or Council has implementing powers so that we in Parliament state loudly and in unison that our interests lie in backing the Commission. That is the only issue that we ought to concentrate on now and, perhaps with some slight regret, we feel that Parliament’s position needs to be slimmed down to Mr Pirker’s points on comitology.
Mr President, Mr Averoff’s report on budgetary discipline is excellent and it affects the implementation of the next budget. The European Parliament has always been in favour of discipline. This means that Parliament has refrained from increasing its expenditure, although there may have been sums set aside for this in the margins, the Financial Perspectives or the basic agreement itself. Parliament has been very strict in the area of staff increases.The report now under discussion concerns agricultural expenditure. Agricultural expenditure is the EU’s largest item of expenditure, taking approximately 45% of the budget. For that reason, agricultural expenditure is the major consideration when we are discussing the EU budget. The ceiling for them is determined by a policy of agricultural expenditure. In practice, the ceiling is an interinstitutional agreement, which is clearly lower than the expenditure policy. This is another clear indication of Parliament’s accountability in matters of the budget.Agricultural expenditure is a rather sensitive issue within the EU, as agricultural policy is the only area where the EU has a direct influence on citizens’ livelihoods. In its practice of agricultural policy the EU has an exceptionally great responsibility. This particularly concerns the reduction of direct subsidies mentioned in Article 5(7). Such a situation cannot arise, as it concerns directly a reduction in the income of individual persons and is thus a curtailment of their constitutional rights. It would be the same as withholding pay.Agricultural expenditure now divides into compulsory and non-compulsory expenditure. LFA aid and environmental aid, in particular, are important in many less favoured agricultural areas. It follows that in future Parliament will have an even greater responsibility than before for agricultural policy. In this regard, the spirit of the report, which stresses the importance of cooperation between the Council and Parliament, is very good.
It is incredibly important quickly to bring about open, clear and unambiguous common rules. We have therefore chosen to vote in favour of the resolution, but not for those proposals that demand a reduced pensionable age. We also believe that salaries should be more in line with those of members of the Swedish Parliament and that salaries should be taxed on a national basis.
At first reading, Parliament presented a series of amendments aimed at quite rightly recognising pure plant oil (PPO) as a biofuel. These various amendments have not been taken up in the common position adopted by the Council, and this is why I am voting in favour of Amendment No 7 tabled by the competent committee. In fact, there is good reason to recognise pure plant oil as a biofuel given its many environmental advantages, but also because the decentralised production of oil in farms would allow the farmers in question to gain added value from their production.The main criticism made in relation to the use of PPO relates to the need to adapt diesel engines. However, this need could work in favour of PPO, since an entire economic sector could thereby be established, with all the economic and social benefits that would bring. Furthermore, adaptations of engines are also necessary for other alternative fuels which do benefit from tax exemption: hydrogen, liquefied natural gas, electricity, etc.
Mr President, the Morillon report treats European defence as part of a realistic, responsible strategy of solidarity and complementarity with the United States, and it therefore represents a substantial undertaking, involving planning, economic sacrifices and military investment. It is a necessary, urgent step forwards based on not underestimating the new terrorist and political threats. It is a coherent agenda which I had occasion to propose last year with the study ‘Una spada europea’ [A European sword].The report avoids dangerous illusions which would not make the world safer and more democratic and certainly not make Europe more united. One of these illusions is the rekindling of unilateral pacifism, a return to the unilateral pacifism of the past of ‘Better red than dead’. Another is the illusion of a Europe which is independent, powerful and authoritative because it has broken with the United States, an illusion which resurrects the short-circuiting tactics of Gaullism, both hostile towards the United States and insensitive to European supranationality, particularly in matters of foreign and defence policy. This is an illusion which is deeply rooted in European nationalism and in ideologies which are now obsolete, an illusion which explains the strange alliance formed between right and left in the face of the war in Iraq and which, by contrast, exalts the principle of democratic intervention. This political illusion is more dangerous than imperial unilateralism or blind pacifism: while ostensibly guiding Europe it has divided it; it has divided the Fifteen, it has offended the countries of Eastern Europe at the very time of the reunification process, it has widened the gap between the Union and the United States and, before the right of veto could be exercised, it has helped to paralyse the Security Council, justifying military intervention outside the context of the UN.Before abandoning itself to developing the institutional system, the Union must define its political vision more clearly, it must ensure the security of its people, territory and borders – which it has failed to do in the Balkans – it must take note of the erosion of arms control and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction in the hands of bloody dictatorships, and it must strive resolutely to combat terrorism and to bring about security for Israel and a democratic Palestinian state.If the Union wants to be allied with the United States rather than subordinate or hostile to it, neither resigned nor resentful, it must develop common defence and gradually assume leadership of the Atlantic Alliance, to which the United States is now only contributing 8% of its forces. To this end, it can take as a basis the Saint-Malo agreement between France and the United Kingdom and General Morillon’s report, which are the greatest achievements of European security policy and its development, which must be consolidated, built upon and extended to include the entire Union.
Mr President, Commissioner, I should like to thank my colleagues in the Committee on Fisheries for the considerable interest and support elicited by my report on the multiannual guidance programmes for fishing fleets. It shows that this is a very important report. The multiannual guidance programmes proposed by the Commission make a lot of sense. The overriding problem is that they are not being implemented in the Member States. Therefore, we never find out whether or not they would be a success. It is quite simply unacceptable that they are not being implemented in their entirety. According to the Commission, there are 7 or 8 Member States which do not comply with MAGPs. If one adds to these the countries which do not have a fishing fleet at all, not many countries are left which comply with the common decisions.We simply have too large a fleet fishing for too few fish in the EU. There has only just recently been a ban on cod fishing in the North Sea, and this clearly shows that there are some very weak links in the chain when it comes to the ability of the common fisheries policy to secure sustainable fisheries. European fishermen are entitled to a more stable fisheries and quota policy as a basis on which to organise their industry. One of the most important tools for securing sustainable fisheries is simply to ensure that the size of the fishing fleet corresponds to the quantity of the fish that can be caught. Technological progress entails a still greater need to reduce fishing fleets. We are now, of course, in the unfortunate and regrettable position arising from the failure to renegotiate a fisheries agreement with Morocco. The EU’s over-capacity when it comes to the fishing fleet is therefore a great weakness.I look forward to the Commission’s using the new tools in the form of Articles 6 and 10 of the Council Regulation which of course enable the Commission to withhold aid for, respectively, fleet renewal and the modernisation of vessels. It is naturally sad that the Member States do not have a greater incentive to implement those decisions which they themselves have been involved in taking on a joint basis and that some countries feel superior about the fact that they are to implement the guidance programmes, given that they are not exceeding the quotas. I find that deeply regrettable. One is almost tempted to propose introducing a system of rewards for those countries which comply with the common decisions and reduce their fishing fleets.I am obliged to criticise the form taken by the Commission’s annual report, which is impossible to read unless one is an expert in the area. The various figures are set out without any comments as to their reliability. For that matter, they are included in the report in such a way that it is largely up to the reader to interpret the figures and make what he considers to be the correct interpretations. In other words, the annual report is not easy to read and it provides absolutely no overview of the situation. For example, there is no clearly set-out table to permit comparison of the individual Member States. It is, unfortunately, a very poor point of departure for the reform of the common fisheries policy in 2002. The Commission therefore has a very great deal of work ahead of it, Commissioner, if a new and better guidance programme for the reduction of the fishing fleet is to be carried out and if this is to be implemented in all the Member States.IN THE CHAIR: MR PROVANVice-President
While in principle we adopt a positive view of the European Parliament and the Council’s recommendation on mobility within the Community, we would like to state the following:We believe that, from the point of view of equality and justice, it is very important that third-country nationals resident within the EU should have the right to utilise the provisions of Community legislation on the same terms as the Union’s own citizens.We also believe that, to a great extent, the Member States themselves should be allowed to decide on the taxes to be collected. Healthy competition will reduce the tax burden on businesses, encouraging entrepreneurship and therefore the creation of job opportunities. In this way, the states’ loss of income due to tax competition may be offset by the fact that more people are paying income tax. We are therefore opposed to Amendment 38 concerning the introduction of common tax regulations for volunteers.
Mr President, I celebrate the fact that this report brings nearer the prospect of safer car fronts and therefore fewer pedestrian, cyclist and motorcyclist deaths. Cars remain excessively and unnecessarily dangerous. Safer car fronts could save 2 000 lives a year at a cost of only EUR 30 or GBP 20 a car.I agree it should be possible to turn off daytime running lights. Indeed, I would want them banned in the United Kingdom because I think they reduce the visibility of motorbikes and make motorists feel superior and invulnerable.I am delighted at the ban on bullbars, not only when cars are sold, but also an as after-sales purchase. May I congratulate not only the rapporteur, but also my own colleague, Hermann Vermeer, for his excellent work in leading the search for a compromise and breaking the early deadlock between the two sides of the House, one insisting that voluntary agreements should never have a role, and the other saying that legislation should never have a role.I regret the attempt by the car industry lobby to discredit the EEVC tests. The report properly reminds us that EEVC is the institution which is at the forefront of research in road safety, with wide experience in the field of pedestrian protection in particular.While the EEVC and other test methods should continue to develop with new technologies, currently there are no equivalent tests, so those tests are for the moment standard. Just as I do not think that it is useful to be theological about voluntary agreements or legislation, nor do I think that it is useful to be theological about a particular kind of test, but there are no different standards at the moment.
Mr President, I should like to bring an entirely different matter to your attention, namely the special expropriation act in Valencia regulating urban development activities – the LRAU – which, in my view, is an outright violation of various international treaties, including the European Union’s Charter of Fundamental Rights. It appears as if the Valencian authorities have designed this Stalinist law in order to achieve their plans cheaply. The law stipulates that expropriations can take place in the general interest, but, in practice, has the effect that project developers have a licence for carrying out their lucrative plans. Compensation for house owners who are evicted is ridiculously low; there is no means of recourse against it and the residents, often retired foreigners from across the EU, are not even informed. This seems to be a mediaeval situation. I would therefore call for one of Parliament's committees of enquiry to examine whether this law violates international treaties and also for this law to be rendered inoperative during the enquiry.
We fully support the right to free movement of persons, as one of the fundamental freedoms of the internal market. That is also why we have chosen to vote in favour of Mrs Lambert’s report. It is natural that the EU, in order to realise its vision of the free movement of workers and other citizens who can support themselves, lay down stipulations for EU citizens moving from one country to another. A significant risk when the EU becomes involved in areas that should chiefly be dealt with by the Member States, however, is that the body of legislation doubles. When Member States want to protect their benefit systems, they resort to discriminatory transitional arrangements because the detailed EU rules do not permit permanent measures that are completely reasonable. Pensions and other benefits that have been accrued can be taken along without problems when citizens move to another EU country, whereas social security benefits (for example child allowances and housing benefit) that are not accrued individually should not in principle be paid out to persons resident in another country. In the context of the EU-25 that is now being formed, Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71, the Social Charter, should be revised in order that it better suits the new requirements.
The opinion on this report revolves around Articles 15 and 17. I now speak on behalf of my group, in respect of the amendments tabled by them and other political groups.The shared aim of all of us is to try to find a balanced way of protecting consumers and shielding SMEs from differing Member State jurisdictions. This problem has been exaggerated totally out of proportion. From the evidence available, such cross border B to C disputes are few and far between and the hope is that most of them will now be weeded out by ADR systems. But, where they go beyond that, it is the consumer who is most disadvantaged. The bigger businesses will be able to afford legal assistance. The astute and sensible SME can insure for a modest premium. That leaves the residue of unsuspecting businesses that may get involved in a transaction outside their Member State.In these circumstances it is not unreasonable to build on the previous content of Article 15, use the concept of “directed at”, acknowledge that this is a concept also found in American jurisprudence and utilised by WIPO. It is not simple but it has been used and there is no simple solution here. This, in combination with a modification to Article 17, which allows freedom of contract to choose ADR but respects existing consumer rights in the form of the unfair contract terms directive, presents a much more workable, legally certain package that will promote confidence.It is a mark of the balance that we have achieved in these amendments that they have won the support of the CBI in my own country and more than partial support from consumer organisations. They certainly prefer this package to the committee one.What I did not refer to when I spoke previously was Parliament’s role in this legislative process. We are consultees. We know from what has been said on this subject by Commissioner Byrne that he will not accept the type of formulation proposed by the committee at Article 17a. I believe that Commissioner Vitorino shares his view.From the Council’s perspective, the UK Government expressed a similar view. It seems unlikely that a French Presidency, which is highlighting consumer affairs, will take a different view.We could say that, because we are only consultees, we can say what we like. We are merely signalling a political direction but it is important that we should signal a legally certain and workable solution, not one that will create as many problems as it seeks to solve.Parliament should behave responsibly as a grown-up legislator, not as a petulant child. We have the opportunity to build on the already substantial achievements in the committee’s final report. I hope that we will go further.
Mr President, in Nordic fashion I am not one to offer undeserved praise, but this time I am happy to read a progressive report with the exact ingredients mentioned by Mrs Gröner, i.e. the rights of young men and women to return to working life after parental leave. I think this is excellent.One of the key issues is the new regulations on discrimination against women, namely the right to return to work after parental leave. According to the proposal, an employee or public sector worker is entitled to have their old job back after parental leave, or an equivalent job on terms which are at least as good.At the same time, any conduct which treats a woman unfairly and which is linked directly or indirectly to pregnancy, motherhood or reconciling family and working life should be forbidden and should constitute direct discrimination.I have an example from the municipality of Oravais, where I spend the summer. Here, a permanent employee was forced to resign so that the employment of the person standing in for them could be terminated. Is this not forbidden, as it is a case of direct discrimination and also a breach of the provision concerning the right to return to work? The conduct of this municipality is certainly a breach of the future provisions.The example shows the need for the new directives. It is important that we have regulations which prevent conduct that discriminates against young women in leading positions in the private or public sectors. I believe this is one of the key issues, particularly considering how many young women are currently employed in temporary posts. The legislation would provide protection for them.There is one point which I hope we can consider further, namely the issue of organisations whose members belong to a particular profession. Where this issue is concerned, I believe we must look at the link between the two fundamental rights which we find in the legislation of many countries, namely freedom of association and the right to protection against discrimination, that is to say the right to equal opportunities. I am thinking, for example, of associations of female lawyers, which are close to my heart and which we must ensure we can maintain.
Madam President, I should briefly like to call your attention to a necessary language correction. In the final clause of Amendment 11, the Dutch translation should be amended. At present it reads: “if the hierarchy were undermined by this”. A correct translation of the English should read: “if this hierarchy were to be undermined”.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy. – Mr President, I am not going to speak about lobsters, but I share the interests of the two previous speakers. Mr President, you know everything by definition, so you already know the opinion of the Industry Committee. In case there are any colleagues here who do not know, it is my role to report it.There was a broad spread of opinions in the Industry Committee, as I shall briefly describe. I will summarise a number of key points which our discussions centred around. First of all, perhaps most importantly, should the scheme be compulsory or should there be opt-outs or exemptions? There were a number of voices from certain national quarters asking for exemptions. Other committee members believed that if we allowed exemptions, everyone would ask for one and there would be no directive, so there was a dilemma there.There was also a concern that the benefits that the cutbacks already achieved in certain Member States will not necessarily be rewarded adequately. This should be taken care of.There was general agreement that from 2008 the directive should be compulsory. Regarding allocation of allowances, the Committee is against auctioning. It seems to be a waste of resources when the industry should be using it to cut back. The Committee is interested in including other sectors, even perhaps in transport and private housing, although this will be difficult to achieve. We are in favour of including the other five greenhouse gases, although measurement is an important question.On comitology and whether the Commission should be allowed to decide the future details, we are firmly, unanimously against. We want full co-decision for the next directive when it is proposed. We want the other parts of the world to pay attention because what we do is useless unless the Americans, Russians and Asians are involved as well.Finally, a personal point, the public should be allowed to buy quotas because we want to involve the citizens in European activities and in saving the world.(Applause)
Mr President, Commissioner, in view of the fact that the market is becoming ever more global in character, it is more important than ever for companies to optimise their competitiveness. For this reason it is sometimes inevitable that companies will have to reorganise or introduce painful measures such as transferring or replacing employees, or if the worst comes to the worst, making them redundant. As my group sees it, neither the European Parliament nor the European Commission have the authority to intervene in the operational management of European companies. Companies ought to be free to take management decisions which will lead to growth and thus to more jobs being created. That is what Europe needs.It goes without saying that my group believes that the restructuring of companies must take place following thorough and timely consultation with the works council. The right of employees to consultation and information as laid down in various European directives should be respected.In addition we should also see to it that measures taken at national and European level improve the economic climate in Europe. After all, inappropriate social or economic commitments for companies lead to more unemployment instead of more jobsFinally, I would like to say, Mr President, that a number of companies in France have also reached the conclusion that there is a need for reorganisation. Better late than never because all companies must be primed for the 21st century. That will be good for Europe and will guarantee jobs in the long term.
Mr President, in the development of relations with the Mediterranean, Europe cannot fail to give due importance to this geographical area of the world. The economic boom in Far East Asia has changed all the parameters, and the Mediterranean Sea has become an important element in international trade, assuming major importance. Trade and cultural relations have to be given priority for economic reasons; a cooperation process needs to be set in motion, but the development of countries which are developing at a slower rate than Western countries also needs to be promoted. There must be political and commercial dialogue and cultural and financial cooperation.This is what is important for the development of relations between the European Parliament and the countries of this area of the world. The Mediterranean Sea is the testing ground for the European Parliament’s capacities to act outside the borders of the Union. It is a well-known fact that the great Europe which is a dream of so many cannot be achieved without the political and economic involvement of this major, fundamental part of the Union.
Mr President, having access to independent media in the context of an open and free debate is one of the most important cornerstones of a free and democratic society. This is something which the world’s dictators have always known. All societies and all States which stifle their own press are after one thing only: to silence debate and to extinguish the vital spark of democracy, which is to say the open and free society.This is now happening every day in Serbia. The few independent TV and radio stations in Serbia are being harassed and persecuted in order finally to be closed down entirely. Dissenting voices are silenced. A desperate, dictatorial leader is oppressing his own people. Mr Milosevic is threatening Montenegro, attacking the weak opposition in Serbia and infiltrating Kosovo. Mr Milosevic and his fellow criminals must be removed. Democracy must be saved.I therefore want to ask Commissioner Nielson what he and the EU are doing to ensure that Mr Milosevic is brought to justice before the International War Crimes Tribunal in The Hague. It is to the world’s shame that Mr Milosevic has not been tried in court for his war crimes and that he is allowed to continue his attacks upon freedom, peace, democracy and the free press.
Mr President, on behalf of myself and my fellow MEPs, I wish to thank Mr Perry for having been a good candidate in this election. As you observed, Mr Perry is one of the foremost champions of good administration. I should also like to see added to the minutes the fact, which I also want above all to express to those present here, that, in our future ombudsman, Mr Diamandouros, we have acquired a worthy successor to Mr Söderman. Mr Diamandouros really is someone who can continue in Mr Söderman’s footsteps, and I think I can say, on behalf of MEPs, that we shall look forward to constructive cooperation with him.We must also be grateful that we had a good supply of professional candidates. The fact that, during the current term of office, we have elected a new ombudsman also means, I believe, that my fellow MEPs are now still more familiar with the work of the ombudsman and that we are in agreement about what is to be done.Finally, a small fly in the ointment: just over half an hour ago, the Finnish press agency sent a text message about the outcome of the election. I would ask our esteemed Vice-President and everyone else to ensure that candidates and others do not become aware of important news such as this in the corridors or through text messages from press agencies, but that we, as far as possible, be able to save such news for the solemn meetings we hold in this Chamber.
Mr President, the European Union faces great challenges over the next few years, challenges which all demand greater involvement on the part of the public. With a view to enhancing knowledge and understanding of what the EU really stands for and what it does, the EU must therefore develop a new information and communication strategy for its citizens. The objective of such a policy must be to see information and communication from the citizen’s point of view and, in this connection, two factors must be taken into consideration. Firstly, people do not, in general, distinguish between the institutions of the EU: the Council, the Commission and Parliament. Instead, they see everything in terms of Brussels. Secondly, people want to receive their information from the sources closest to them, including those that are physically closest. Therefore, the key messages in this report are those relating to coordination and decentralisation.What is required is coordination between the institutions where information to citizens and communication with citizens is concerned, together with the highest possible degree of decentralisation in all information and communication activities of the European institutions. It is very gratifying that the Commission and Parliament have resumed and strengthened their cooperation in the Interinstitutional Group on Information and, when the group meets tomorrow, we can also feel very pleased that the Council is participating for the first time in this important coordination of the work.When it comes to decentralisation, it is important that the Member States participate more actively in the work. Decentralisation means that the tasks of providing information are delegated to the representations in the Member States, together with the responsibility for these and the necessary financial resources. In this way, the tasks are carried out as close to the people as possible and in the manner required by the people in the particular country, region or local community. At present, far too much information about the EU is provided in too general a form with, for example, the same brochure being translated into 11 languages. However, people in Lapland and Sicily may not necessarily have the same requirements, in terms either of the content of the information or in the way they receive it.Coordination is understood as overall high-level planning, that is to say at the level of the Interinstitutional Group on Information. In the report, the European Parliament asks that the Commission draw up an annual report on activities as a whole – including those that take place in the respective Directorates-General, for there is apparently no one who has an overview of what happens there.This report concerns the frameworks for information and communication. In a few months’ time, the Commission will be producing another statement on the content. Where the frameworks, or tools, are concerned, we know that more than 60% of people want to receive their information from the television. We must therefore consider whether we should create a European Union TV channel dealing with European Union politics. The ‘C-SPAN’ model from the United States, ‘BBC Parliament’ in Britain and the German parliamentary channel, ‘Phoenix’, as well as DK4 in Denmark are various models that can be considered at European Union level. The Commission and Parliament have combined in setting up a service called ‘Europe Direct’, through which people can very quickly obtain answers via the Internet or over the telephone about where they should apply in order to obtain the information they require. This is a service that has already been very well received by the people of Europe. It is a splendid initiative.When we turn to the content of this policy, we must also proceed on the basis of what people want, and what they want is information about those matters close to their everyday lives, such as food safety, employment, the environment, traffic, human genetics and so on. We must be very careful about preventing any propaganda from the institutions of the European Union. Information must be as reliable, unbiased and pluralist as possible, and those who provide it must be accountable. Where pluralism is concerned, people could, of course, be made aware of points of view other than those of the institutions by means of Internet links from European institution web sites to the web sites of Eurosceptics, NGOs and others.It will cost money to turn this report into a reality. We would ask the Commission how much. On the other hand, the task is enormously important for democracy and, at present, the information budget in the EU is approximately a quarter of a euro per person per year. It is a small amount, given the task concerned, especially in comparison with the amounts spent in the Member States on information provided by national and local authorities.I have many people to thank for assisting in the preparation of this report: officials of the Commission, Parliament and the Council, many experts and a large number of NGOs but, first and foremost of course, my colleagues in the Interinstitutional Group on Information and in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport. Many thanks.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport. – Mr President, I too should like to congratulate Mrs Karamanou on this report. As draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Culture, I should also like say a word of thanks for the cross-party cooperation I had in that committee on this most important issue. We must tackle the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography across the EU. Whatever anyone thinks of subsidiarity, for something as important as this we have to make sure we have common rules, particularly because of the Internet and the free movement of people across the EU countries.I know that there are several child pornographers who have set up business in one EU country because if they are caught they know they will get a lesser sentence in that country. We must make sure that we stamp that out.I am very pleased that much of the opinion I drafted has been accepted by the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, particularly the section on penalties and ensuring that we have the same penalties across the EU. I thought the Commission was wrong to bring in tougher penalties for the exploitation of children under 10. I worked very hard in my committee to make sure we also set tougher penalties for those who commit offences against children under 16. I also wanted to bring in children with learning difficulties. I talked a lot with some of the organisations working in this field and they said that disabled children are twice as likely to be abused as any other children. It is important that we protect children with learning disabilities, whose mental age is often much lower than their physical age.The question of definitions is, of course, going to be difficult and we have to work on that. We had great difficulty in the Committee on Culture, as we have had across the board. But we must make sure that photographs of naked children are caught in that net. We see what happened with the Wonderland Club, where individuals had to provide 10,000 photographs of naked children in order to get into that Wonderland Club.I want to say very briefly that we have to clamp down on sex tourism and make sure that nationals from Member States can be prosecuted if they commit a crime in third countries.
Madam President, I want to begin with six words which in Danish all begin with an “m”, as in men. The six words are: muren [der faldt i Berlin] (the Wall which came down in Berlin), markedet (the market), mainstreaming (mainstreaming), magt (power), mæslinger (measles) and menneskerettigheder (human rights). These words are used in the following question: did the fact that the Wall came down, that the market took over and that we, as a result, seriously accepted the word mainstreaming in Beijing, mean that men stepped – if not a little into the background – then at least a bit to the side, so surrendering a little power and being willing to take care of the children when they have the measles? Does it also therefore mean that human rights are respected so that women, like everyone else, are not discriminated against and exposed to violence? The answer is no.I would call attention to this situation because women such as ourselves in the rich countries of the world, that is to say also in the EU, should always remember that those who make the decisions and so who also decide the fate of our sisters in the developing countries, in Kosovo, in the Balkans etc., continue to be men and that there is therefore a risk of the results of our work and of the programmes as a whole not representing women’s wishes and needs in a balanced way. We still need a discussion about equality and change in the EU but, above all, there must be active efforts in respect of the developing countries and in connection with aid to Kosovo, the Balkans etc. to ensure that women are part of the process and are also involved in development and reconstruction. The stability pact, which has a shortage of women in its leadership and in which women generally are not involved, shows that there is still a lot to be done. There is a great need for the men and women in the European Parliament to support their fellow Members of the European Parliament, together with the NGOs, in their endeavours to become involved at all levels of the societies concerned.I would end by thanking both the Commissioner, for a speech which demonstrated her commitment, and the President-in-Office of the Council.
Mr President, I would like to thank the Commissioner for his introduction but I am still left with a few questions. You said that you have a total shake-up of the framework programme in mind. We have tried to do this with the fifth framework programme and, as it now transpires, with very little effect.In a resolution quoted by yourself, which was adopted in this Parliament on 18 May and for which I was rapporteur, I recommended multi-disciplinary teams for research, since innovations often occur on the cutting edge of different disciplines. I cannot find any reference to this in your report which I have now read and which you adopted this week. My second point, Commissioner, is that you recommend the European Union to take part in national programmes. I have also written that, in Europe, we need to move away from techno-nationalism, but once again if the framework programme is what we are concerned with, this Parliament – and I repeat this very Parliament – plays a crucial role, and how will Parliament’s role take shape if we apply variable geometry?
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ECHELON exists, as has already been stated this morning by different speakers. But do you realise that it only managed to surface thanks to the tenacity of this Parliament? For when I questioned the Council and Commission about this in 1997, my questions were not at all taken seriously. This situation is now very different. The Dutch government has issued a report in which a reasonable case is made for the existence of ECHELON and the Council has also said that it supports our findings.In the United States too, it has been openly admitted that 5% of all information the US collects for economic purposes originates from non-open sources. According to an estimate, this translates for American industry into more than 7 billion dollars in the way of contracts. That is why agreements must be made globally, preferably in the context of the World Trade Organisation.Cryptography is a crucial point in the debate on protecting citizens and businesses. The protection of privacy via legislation is only effective if the law is enforced. Enforcement is much more difficult if cross-border espionage is involved. That is why it is necessary to encrypt information, and people must be equipped to protect themselves against espionage.That is why, Mr President, I should like to hear from Commissioner Liikanen as to what his proposals for additional legislation or measures in this field are. For whatever is technologically possible will be implemented.
Mr President, Mr Söderman, we in the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, and myself personally, are proud that our Ombudsman is courageous, enterprising and able to act. It is extremely important that we have someone with such integrity who has dared to stand up for openness and transparency and against the culture of underhandedness, secrecy and, unfortunately in certain cases, of cheating and corruption, which also exists in the European institutions. Only an open and public administration can win support among those who are working here amongst the politicians and among the citizens whom we represent. The line the Ombudsman is pursuing has a lot of support amongst the citizens of all Member States.It is an indisputable fact, and there are several international scientific reports to prove it, that there is a crystal-clear connection between a high level of openness and transparency in the administration and a low level of corruption. The opposite is also true: a closed and secretive administration tends to foster a higher level of corruption. That is, of course, also true in the European institutions. That is why it is so important for us to have a completely independent ombudsman who can act independently and without being subject to any lobbying whatsoever or to interested parties attempting to influence him.The increasing proportion of complaints coming from citizens also points to the need for our Ombudsman, who really acts in the interests of the citizens. The only criticism that can be directed at the Ombudsman is probably that, unfortunately, the institution is still far too little known in many Member States and that far too few citizens are aware of this right. This is probably something which I would like to see concentrated on in the future.To summarise, the Ombudsman fulfils a very important function. I would like to congratulate him on the work he has carried out during the year and wish him luck in the future.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate Malcolm Harbour on an unusually well-informed report which addresses many important issues. This report also addresses the fact that the society of the future will be a mobile Internet society, and I believe that we Members are, in a way, guinea pigs as regards whether or not this mobility will work.The report also shows the rapid rate of change that we are seeing in this area, the points of departure for the capital market being among the things that have changed since Mr Harbour’s work was completed.The only thing that I would like to say to the Commissioner today is that I hope that the Commission’s organisation is sufficiently flexible to be able to take account of the need for cooperation between its different areas and to be able to react quickly to the changes required. I also feel that account must be taken of this issue in the White Paper on European Governance.Better coordination of the Commission’s activities is needed, as Mrs Mann also mentioned. It is also evident that the Internet will lead to challenges for administrations, with open competition between administrations becoming the guiding principle – and the Commission will have to cope with this competition.
Mr President, the AIEM is a tax that is being talked about a lot this year, both in the Canary Islands and in this House, to the extent that this is the second time we have debated and voted on it.Furthermore, it replaces another no less categorical tax, the APIM. As an outermost region of the European Union, the Canary Islands have seen a review of their model of integration into our European Community, which led to the APIM falling apart when certain basic products or goods were imported, resulting in job losses in the Canary Islands’ industrial sector and a fall in the export of local products.The European Commission, in collaboration with the competent authorities, has therefore put forward a proposal for a decision on special fiscal measures designed to correct the costs of being an outermost region.However, the most important fact from a political viewpoint is, I believe, that the Commission has, to this end, taken Article 299(2) of the Treaty as the legal basis for implementing a temporary and proportional derogation from Articles 23, 25 and 90 when applying the Community provisions that allow the Spanish authorities to discriminate in fiscal terms regarding certain Canary Island products.Hence our congratulations to the Commission, the rapporteur, Mr Marques, and also Mr Casaca for his support. We hope the Council – and Parliament – will be receptive towards this proposal, because amongst other things this tax is recognition of the Canary Islands’ fiscal regime, and it is also coherent with the economic diversification strategy drawn up by the European Union for the outermost regions and prevents job losses.
Mr President, I should first of all like to congratulate Mr Bourlanges.Needless to say, the proposal we are discussing at the moment has become inevitable after the events of a number of years ago. It is necessary for us to further regulate the task of the executive bodies so as to avoid the mistakes of the past.What will be the specific task of those bodies? We totally agree with Mr Bourlanges that that still needs to be regulated. One thing is certain: they will need to carry out a specific administrative task for a certain limited time.What are the salient points for the liberal group?Firstly, the Commission will always remain responsible for what happens. It would be unacceptable if certain tasks were to be delegated to another executive agency on a discretionary basis.Secondly, the percentage of the number of officials in such a body will need to be determined on a case-by-case basis. We are opposed to putting a percentage figure on it, for we cannot possibly put a figure on it at the moment. That will clearly depend on the tasks of the agency.Concerning the discharge of agencies, the suggestion that this Parliament should look into the discharge of each agency seems unreasonable to us. If the Commission is responsible, and if it is the case that the Commission is granted discharge by Parliament, that naturally implies that we indirectly grant the agencies discharge. That is our strong view. As for the remainder of the proposals, we generally back the amendments which the rapporteur has tabled.
Mr President, Minister, when all is said and done, it is a question of the meaning of words and of our really intending what is stated in Article 4 of the Regulation, namely that access to a document currently being dealt with will only be refused if such access would significantly undermine certain interests. The aim is, in fact, to achieve transparency, and we are striving to make this transparency as fully effective as possible.Ladies and gentlemen, this is about our believing in the words we write. I would call upon everyone who has contributed to the decision to ensure that the words are given their intended meaning. Otherwise, people will become even more mistrustful.We have achieved a compromise and made certain gains. I am extremely pleased that we have succeeded in introducing more good administrative procedures for the handling of documents than I had believed we would. It is also important that the exceptions are more limited than those proposed by the Commission. It is interesting to see what was dispensed with. What was also interesting was today’s statement from Commissioner Barnier to the effect that the infringement proceedings must be public, which means that we are entering a new era in the European Union. Citizens will be able to monitor the Commission’s activity in a completely new way.Many images have been used today. I agree with Mr Watson – without whom we should not have come so far – that we have obtained a powerful searchlight to use on documents, instead of the pocket torch we had previously. We have acquired a powerful tool. The Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party will use that tool in the way cited by my colleagues and, in this, we are counting upon the help of the ombudsman.There are shortcomings, but they are not as serious as our opponents maintain. We must respect the meaning of the words. We must also make sure that the Commission stops misusing the protection of personal data, something which has recently happened again.It is now a question of going further, beyond what emerges from the reports about what has happened. It is about freedom of expression for employees and about ensuring that future discussion of the EU deals with transparency in a broader perspective, for transparency must apply to all the institutions and involve more than making documents publicly available.
The proposal to set up a European network of permanent, national football information points, in other words, to enhance cooperation between the Member States where the enforcement of law and order in international football matches is concerned, is a Belgian initiative which is based on the experience gathered at Euro 2000, the European national teams championship, which, as you know, was organised jointly by Belgium and the Netherlands in June 2000. The proposal and report are sound, and the initiative is excellent in my view. I should, however, like to make two observations.First of all, the proposal only applies, of course, to EU Member States. You may ask, what about the countries outside the European Union, many of whose clubs also take part in international competitions? Turkey, Romania and Croatia also play teams of the EU Member States. I hear you say that candidate countries will obviously need to adopt the acquis communautaire, and that is right. But that is not now nor in the immediate future. For some of them, that is not until 2004 at the earliest. And then, what about the others? What about the non-candidate countries? It may be possible to link up with the UEFA and with the national football unions, to find a way round this.Secondly, greater involvement and cooperation by the clubs and supporters’ associations is important to improve the climate and the quality. And I believe that specific efforts must be made in order to achieve this.
Mr President, my vote on the report on Cyprus should be seen as a protest against its lack of balance, because I am not opposed to the entry of Cyprus to the European Union. On the contrary, I am keen to see Cyprus in, but I could not accept this unbalanced report, especially paragraph 4, and the failure to insist on at least on the desirability of having a political settlement prior to accession.In addition, the report called for the repatriation of settlers which presumably includes their children born and raised in Cyprus. Whatever the solution on settlers, and it is a thorny issue along with land restitution on both sides, this is too harsh without giving a qualification.The European Parliament has failed in its duty to reflect a balanced approach which I very much regret. Of course the Republic of Cyprus is the internationally recognised state but we should do more to recognise the rights as well as the duties of the Turkish-Cypriot community.
Mr President, progress towards stability in Macedonia is a real example of how cooperation between NATO, the EU and the US can have very beneficial effects. Commissioner Patten is absolutely right to say that the European Union has got its act together to a considerable extent in the Balkans. I also congratulate the coalition government in place since last September. Let us hope that Macedonia has indeed turned a corner and that the Ohrid Agreement will be fully implemented. A military presence is still necessary to deliver a secure atmosphere and the EU mission can and should carry out tasks such as weapons collection and training.For the EU to undertake its first military operation is a truly significant and historic milestone. Mr Brok is quite right to insist that it should not happen without consultation with the European Parliament. The fact that the finalisation of the details has been held up by wrangling over intelligence sharing between NATO and the EU is said to be purely a technical issue. It is illustrative of the interdependence between the two and what we have at stake in making this agreement work. It is right for the EU to take over from NATO and a convincing demonstration that we are serious about playing a larger security role.The internal problems facing Macedonia are not limited to military security threats, there are many policing challenges and the cancer of corruption and criminality, often violent criminality, is undermining the state. There are murky links between organised criminals and political extremists and in a neighbouring country, as we have just heard, the murder of Prime Minister Djindjic may be evidence of those links. There can be no economic progress or investment while lawlessness is rife. The Prime Minister of Macedonia wondered who would invest, build and hire new people in a country with constant shootings, a country in one third of whose territory travel after dark is not recommended. He is absolutely right: there is a very close link between security and the growth of the economy.I would like to mention again the problem of the name. The President-in-Office and the Commissioner use the formulation of FYROM – the former Yugoslavia Republic of Macedonia. I refuse to do that. I wish these negotiations over the name could get somewhere – they seem to drag on.Finally, I would like to urge those Member States that have not yet ratified the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, to get on with it. This would send a very good signal to Macedonia.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mr Langen for preparing this report on what is a difficult subject. As the report states, important restructuring of the shipbuilding industry has come about by adjusting quantity and quality. Shipbuilding, however, is still in a serious crisis, as a result of dumping by the Koreans. We must attend to the competitiveness of European shipbuilding by creating equal opportunities for shipyards on the world market. Improvements to the competitiveness of shipyards must be extended with the help of internal measures and agreement procedures. Operating aid has not, however, solved the problems of the shipyard industry. Shipbuilding is a sector that demands high technology and whose competitiveness can be improved through cooperation with a view to specialisation, as well as through continued technological development, research and development. Neither will operating aid, not even specifically-channelled aid, solve the Korea problem: that has to be firmly dealt with by means of trade policy, for example.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I should like to thank Mrs Schroedter for drawing up an important report. Measures to achieve economic balance have been inadequate. Differences in levels of prosperity between regions have even increased to some extent. Differences in levels of unemployment have also to be taken into serious consideration when planning regional and structural policy. Commitment on the part of small and medium-sized enterprises to projects, and targeting structural actions at the most disadvantaged regions are important areas of emphasis. Furthermore, regional development must be supported by other areas of policy, such as agricultural, taxation and transport policy.I agree with many of the other speakers that GDP is not the only criterion to use when determining eligible areas. Permanent handicaps due to difficult natural conditions must equally be taken into account. For example, an exceptionally sparse population, migration, an ageing population, long distances, and a cold or hot climate cause permanent problems. In the future we shall have to pay very special attention to the issue of strengthening rural vitality and diversity.If Union enlargement is to take place, cohesion policy will need to be strengthened. At the same time we have to remember that regional differences are not going to disappear because new poor regions will be joining the Union. Enlargement must not come about at the expense of the more disadvantaged areas but through united efforts. As Mr Caveri said, the simplification and clarification of regional and structural policy also remain a continual challenge. The administrative load must be lightened, for example, by switching to the ‘one fund’ principle. It is important that all the Union’s resources should be efficiently utilised, even in the remotest regions. Together we must ensure that the whole of the area of the Union is included in the single market and enjoys the benefits which that brings with it.
Mr President, transparency and openness do not appear in a good light in the European Union. In the eyes of the citizens, the European Union is a cumbersome bureaucracy that spends its time cooking up all manner of regulations behind closed doors. As a parliamentarian, I can confirm the accuracy of this impression. The Council of Ministers, in particular, is a sealed fortress. And the present legislative proposal from the Commission is no cause for celebration either. Fortunately, this Commission proposal has been heavily adapted by the various parliamentary committees, due in part to the contribution of a number of liberal draftsmen of opinions that have just spoken. The guiding principle must be that all documents are accessible, subject to certain exceptions. That is the will of this Parliament.All in all, the  Group feels that the proposal has been substantially improved on, but that there is still room for improvement nonetheless. I would point out that the arrangements pertaining to the registration of documents are too complex, the grounds for exceptions could be formulated better, and that non-European EU citizens have a right to openness too. The stipulations concerning the duty of the Commission and the Council to provide Parliament with information, have no place in this legislative proposal. The doctrine of political responsibility must not be confused with the citizens’ rights to openness. All in all, I call upon the Social Democrat and Conservative groups, and, of course, the others too, to support our amendments.Mr President, a word about the position of the European Commission, because I have already talked about the Council. My group and I have our doubts about the European Commission. According to reports, this regulation on public access has rarely been discussed in the college, and has been regarded by it up until now as a predominantly official matter. I am keen to hear what the Commissioner in attendance today thinks about this. If it were to be the case then it is a miscalculation because this is about the credibility and reliability of the European Union in the eyes of the citizens. I call upon the Commission to give its full cooperation in delivering a sound regulation based on the principle of public access subject to certain exceptions.
Mr President, today we have the opportunity to show our solidarity with the Venezuelan people, who last December experienced the consequences of a natural disaster which affected the coasts of the States of Vargas and Miranda and caused the deaths of 50 000 people. We therefore insist on the importance of approving this resolution which, in summary, is the logical consequence of the report of the special committee which travelled to Venezuela to get to know the reality on the ground of this natural disaster, and also reflects the coherence of the European Union’s political commitments. I hope it will thereby be possible to finance, in a significant way, the programme for recovery of the areas affected and that it will be drawn up according to the models for this type of action. Furthermore, we should take account, for the purposes of coordination, of the programmes of financial aid of the Member States and the Community regions.
Mr President, I would like, in double-quick time, to take you through a number of observations which concern the Court of Auditors’ reports which were, indeed, useful.First of all, there is the Garriga report. I believe the Committee on Budgets has already made plans to this effect, but I think it is vital that we evaluate the results of the committee of inquiry on transit fraud. What has the Commission done so far with the recommendations in that report?Next, there is the McCartin report on agriculture. It is always an interesting topic, and nobody will deny that the agricultural policy is not static, but that it should move along with the times, especially in connection with the negotiations within the World Trade Organisation and enlargement.I would also like to raise two points without making a judgment either for or against. The following considerations are currently of importance to my group: first, what would the effect of cofinancing agricultural expenditure be, and income allowance, in particular? Another point, which is very topical at the moment, is animal disease control. This is taking a huge chunk out of the European budget. Would it not be possible, in imitation of customs in the Member States, to obtain insurance cover against the outbreak of certain animal diseases? Could the Commission look into this matter at the earliest opportunity?Turning to the Staes report, it is encouraging to see that the European Union can make a difference in the Balkans, which is much like a hornet’s nest. We are delighted about this, and we believe the Staes report is excellent. We particularly support the fact that it is not the Office of the High Representative which is calling the shots; it is the European Union which coughs up the funds and which will have to check whether these are well spent.I would like to make a general comment on the climate of corruption which is supposed to prevail in the Balkans. In our opinion, it is necessary for the Commission to decide on the way in which this should be allowed to affect Europe. Is this having an impact on European aid?Finally, I would like to make an observation with regard to the Dell'Alba report. In my country, there are indications that the price of industrial sites is rising considerably thanks to European aid. This is not desirable in our eyes. Could something be done about this?
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I fully understand the frustration of Mr Di Pietro who, in a short space of time, has had to carry out an extraordinary amount of work in order to be able to submit this report to us today.Crime in the European Union has increased to such an extent that we cannot and must not content ourselves any longer with a step-by-step approach of mutual legal assistance in criminal affairs. The European Parliament is certainly not to blame for this. It is the governments of the Member States who have restricted the amount of leeway to this degree. As a result, the European Parliament is faced with an almost impossible task. One has to content oneself with the idea that all means, however slight, must be seized upon in order to set up better legal assistance. By way of paradox, I could say that it would be best if as little as possible was said about this report, for the clearer we make it that only very small steps are being taken, the more the world of crime will gloat and the more the acute imbalance between organised crime and the desperate lack of judicial cooperation will become obvious. I would therefore make an urgent appeal to the Council of Ministers to finally face reality, that is to say the fact that crime is developing faster than the law.The goal is, after all, to provide the judicial bodies – magistrates, in the first place, but also the citizens involved – with the instruments to fight crime without prejudice to the fundamental guarantees of defence and the general principles of human rights. If not, we will be fighting a running battle.I therefore advocate further harmonisation of criminal law in the EU Member States in the first instance. In my opinion, this is the only way to fight crime effectively across all Member States. As long as this harmonisation has not been achieved, however, we need to be consistent if we want to bring about mutual legal assistance.To this end, I had submitted an amendment stipulating that legal assistance can only be granted in the event of criminal prosecution instituted by the authorities based on facts which are punishable according to the national law of the petitioning party and the Member State petitioned. The content of my amendment is, in fact, echoed in Amendment No 43, which also stipulates this condition of accrual. This condition of accrual is essential since, in my opinion, the principle of nulla poena sine lege, legality in criminal law, must be observed. As such, any request for legal assistance concerning a hypothetical action which is not a crime in the petitioned Member State contravenes this principle of legality and thus the fundamental principles of justice in the petitioned Member State. Hence, it is extremely important that this condition of accrual be adopted.Finally, I would like to reiterate that Mr Di Pietro has, in my opinion, delivered sterling work by submitting a report which, within the limitations, offers all possible guarantees for safeguarding individual human rights and fundamental freedoms. If, however, we would like to give European citizens a greater sense of security, we need to step up our efforts in the field of judicial cooperation.
Mr President, we are at the end of the mandate of the Commission and Parliament and therefore, on this occasion, I would like to congratulate Commissioner Monti on the excellent work he has done throughout the mandate of this Commission.Competition policy, as has been pointed out, is one of the fundamental policies which the Commission is responsible for. Its implementation and application is very difficult and subject to many pressures, I would therefore like once again to congratulate Commissioner Monti on his success in implementing this policy.Nevertheless, there are certain aspects which worry us and which other Members have pointed out. The first, naturally, is that we must not lower our guard. The pressure from economic and political interests to sidestep market rules is logical, and we must always balance, for the benefit of citizens and consumers, the free exercise of market mechanisms in order to ensure an efficient market with a correct allocation of resources. It is therefore obvious that we must counteract these pressures, since it is logical, and we economists know it, that the tendency of any company is to control the market, if it can be done in an oligopolistic way, all very well, but if it can be monopolistic, even better, and in certain sectors there are still very significant distortions, as has been mentioned here.The second point that I would obviously like to point out is the’s traditional position that there should be a section in the Court of Justice to deal with these issues.The third and final point would be to ensure, both in the Commission and in the other institutions of the European Union, that the operation of the courts responsible for competition, at all levels within the Union, is correct. If it is rigorous in certain areas but not in others, we are obviously giving comparative assistance which distorts the situation of the markets, and even more so, as has been pointed out, in view of the enlargement which will take place in a few months’ time.Having made these observations, which I would like to leave as suggestions for application in the future, I would like to repeat that we in theare in agreement with the positions expressed by the rapporteur, Mr Della Vedova, and we congratulate Commissioner Monti on his wonderful work.
Mr President, it was stated in a previous speech that consumers and the public do not trust producers. For our part, we must all swiftly rectify this basic error: this is not so much a matter which concerns producers: these crises are crises of the food production industry and the feedingstuffs industry, for which the producer then winds up involuntarily looking like the responsible party.I would like to raise one issue which has not yet been mentioned, and that is the matter of heavy metals in sewage sludge. Sewage sludge contains heavy metals, including considerable quantities of cadmium and because of this, in my own home country, and in the Nordic countries generally, this sludge may not be spread on the fields at all, because cadmium gets into the food chain and thereby enters the human body. It is inconceivable that it has been possible to use sewage sludge for years in the preparation of feed and in fertiliser, although this was banned in the EU ten years ago. Our European agriculture model has received a heavy blow and, because of this, we must swiftly take up these issues.President Prodi said that he would also deal with economic matters. For this reason, the factories using prohibited substances must be closed immediately. Then we would be acting on a sensitive issue, intervening in aspects of the economy, and that would have a very speedy effect. Such action, which adds to monitoring and bureaucracy, must be totally transparent, however, so that everyone knows what is actually going on. Sewage sludge and waste cannot be permitted to be used in animal feed.
Mr President, the last speaker can rest assured that I do not intend to talk exclusively about the mistakes made in Belgium either. I believe that a dioxin scandal or a BSE crisis, or whatever it may be, can occur anywhere in Europe. I therefore feel it is high time that the European Commission, together with the European Council, which I understand has given its full support, should develop initiatives as rapidly as possible for bringing about a food policy at European level. Of course, it goes without saying that it is all about public health. Providing guarantees for public health must be the first priority.On the same theme, I should just like to refer to the resolution adopted in October last year, when the European Parliament gave unanimous support to producing a European quality assurance policy for foodstuffs. All foods which are to enter the marketplace and receive a European label of quality will have to have been monitored throughout the food chain. Who will be able to do this? We already know of a number of inspection bureaus that are offshoots of the biological production industry. If people do not want to buy such food, they want to have food in a different way, but so that we know exactly how it has been produced, then in my opinion that should be possible. The customer is king and the same inspection bureau that monitors biological food will also be able to monitor food subject to different standards.I think it is particularly important for this to happen in Europe. For if it happens in Europe, then we will be the first large trading block in the world to provide consumers with guarantees of food quality in this way. At the end of the day, that is what it is all about. It has already been pointed out from various quarters that our first priority is to guarantee fair competition, that if we demand something of the European producers, we can also demand the same standards of producers outside Europe.What would be the best way of bringing this about at the moment? We are already aware that there are, at present, integrated production systems in various European countries. Germany, Austria, the Netherlands, to name a few countries at random, all have standards for integrated production. It is only a pity that these standards vary from country to country and I consider that unacceptable for such large common European markets. It is, therefore, for the Commission to find the common denominator as soon as possible.I should also like to talk about what Mr Prodi said yesterday on the subject of a European food bureau. I am not yet absolutely convinced of the need for one. The American Food and Drug Administration has some five to six thousand officials. Can the Commission afford to set up something of this kind? I very much doubt it. I should therefore like to ask if it could send something to the European Parliament so that a comparison can be made. How does the American Food and Drugs Administration operate? How would it be if a particular department were to be added to our office in Dublin, the Veterinary and Phytosanitary Bureau. They could perhaps fulfil the very same function considerably cheaper. That seems to me to be something that this Parliament should consent to.Finally, I wish Finland every success. We shall take stock at the end of this year.
Mr President, the subject of the budget. The Council has ‘only’ cut the European Commission’s original proposals for Heading 4, External action, which contained a 3.9% increase on the previous year, by 0.3%. As we all know, the European Union will be taking on more and more new commitments. These relate to the fight against terrorism and organised crime, the reconstruction of Iraq, badly governed countries such as Afghanistan and Congo, the enlarged Europe, conflict prevention in the Middle East, and so on. These are important matters and it is also clear that the people are in favour of a more assertive external policy: 67% of Europeans state that they support more European Union in the world.On the other hand, it is crystal clear that the financial limits of the possible commitments will have been reached unless more money is made available. In a few weeks’ time the European Union will be participating in the international donor conference on the reconstruction of Iraq. Mr Patten is suggesting a possible EU contribution of about EUR 200 million in 2003-2004. Others are suggesting an amount of EUR 500 million. Either way, our Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy does not want this to be at the expense of other geographical zones or commitments, such as Afghanistan, or non-geographical budget lines such as the rapid response concept and landmines. If the European Union wants to assume its share of responsibility for peace and security in the world, it must also be prepared to earmark the necessary financial resources. If not, Europe is at risk of becoming a political dwarf on the international stage.
Mr President, the announcement last week was bad enough. The comments from some US officials, including Mr Aldonas, that somehow protectionism is warranted to correct wider macroeconomic factors is potentially even worse. It displays a dangerous and economically illiterate philosophy that needs to be strongly rebuffed. The question is: how do we rebuff it?Firstly, we need to ensure that we consolidate our friendships with those allies with whom we wish to act together against American unilateralism. And if there is one tactical concern my group has about brandishing safeguard measures against those steel exports that might be diverted from the US to Europe, it is that it might actually alienate countries such as Russia, India and Brazil, with whom we have to act together in the WTO and the OECD to take on this American move. Therefore, we would ask the Commission and, of course, the Council, as a matter of urgency to try and negotiate bilateral voluntary export restraint agreements with these countries, so as to avoid the diversion from steel going to America to Europe happening in the first place. The obvious danger if we do not achieve this is that we end up having spats with precisely the people we should be teaming up with against this American behaviour.The second point is this: let us not be squeamish; this decision was taken for domestic political reasons. It will only be reversed or limited if domestic political pressures dictate that should be the case. In order to do that, we need to brandish big sticks which are felt on the domestic US political scene. And conveniently enough, if inelegantly, we do have such a big stick, in the form of the measures we can take within the context of the foreign sales cooperation dispute. Of course, we do not wish to mix these things formally; but let us not be naive. The FSC dispute provides us with the best means by which to inflict the domestic pressure which is absolutely necessary in order to get some change in the American attitude and to reassert the international rule of law, rather than the rule of the law of George Bush's economic jungle.(Applause)
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, fifteen years after the countries of Eastern Europe threw off the straitjacket of communism, what we are seeing is a completely new life and, in reality, new countries. This is a fantastic achievement by these people. As members of the EU they will, just like the rest of us, gain full freedom of movement to promote increased solidarity and strength throughout the whole Union.In different ways during my work with enlargement, I have met many ambitious, hard-working people. I therefore regret that, in the existing Member States, we seem to be so afraid of the workforce coming here. I am ashamed that, in my own country, there is talk of social tourism. This freedom of movement would mean a necessary injection into our slightly stagnated labour markets.Agriculture is more important in these countries than in the existing Member States. The areas are larger; three times as many people are involved in agriculture as in the present EU; and agriculture represents a larger proportion of the gross national income, that is to say, agricultural policy is more important for these countries than it really is for us. We need a policy for all the countries. We need, of course, to ensure that the new Member States have organisations that provide support and control and that they can tighten up food standards and the monitoring of animal and plant health. Much has happened and, if we compare the current situation with the Commission’s report, we can be pleased about the information that we are receiving to the effect that much of what had not been achieved by 30 September 2003 has now been achieved. We hope that the rest can be done by 1 May 2004.As far as the other two countries that we are dealing with, Bulgaria and Romania, are concerned, it is important to report that Bulgaria has made substantial progress in recent years and that the country deserves great praise for this. Romania has been in a more difficult situation and has further to go in order to catch up but, even this morning, we have received reports that things are happening, and of course we must recognise this and approve of it.Romania is the most typical agricultural country of the candidate countries, having many small farms. Forty per cent of the population still works in agriculture, and many farms rely on subsistence farming. A huge economic and social change is necessary in order for development to be made possible, but we must remember that we have a shared responsibility. The candidate countries have their responsibility, but the existing Member States must also take responsibility. The Commission must participate rather than just making demands. It must also stimulate and make resources available. More effective use must be made of the SAPARD resources.Having tried to follow the developments in Central and Eastern Europe for almost 40 years, I feel sincere joy at being able to welcome these countries both on 1 May 2004 and during 2007.
Mr President, Mr Bowis has done an extraordinary job as rapporteur on this major and complicated issue.In fact, there are a whole lot of important and, on the face of it, conflicting objectives to be achieved in this matter of food safety, including that of safety itself. In this connection, I should like to speak up for cheap food of the kind which families with children buy and which children and young people eat.We are also concerned with the freedom to develop food and the food sector and also with the conservation of Europe’s cultural heritage. A central aspect of this is to ensure that the rich heritage of traditions can be preserved. I therefore want to give my support to Amendment No 15.I nonetheless believe that one issue has not been properly discussed, namely the need for uniform regulations to be followed up by uniform and thorough supervision. It should not be forgotten that, viewed as a whole, the food sector is the biggest workplace in the European Union. We must ensure that the regulations are complied with in the same way throughout the European Union. Otherwise, we interfere both with safety and free competition in the internal market.I should like to repeat this: ensure that the regulations are properly complied with, the length and breadth of the Union.
Madam President, we are now discussing this directive for the second time this year, and once again, a large number of amendments have been tabled. This would have been completely unnecessary, of course, if the Council had taken more notice, or indeed any notice, of our first reading and the amended proposal from the Commission, which went some way towards our goal. I am happy to say that since then – partly through the good offices of the Commission – the entire Presidency has shown willing and I believe the positions have moved somewhat closer together after all. Legislative procedures do not take place in a vacuum; as the negotiations for the framework agreement on tobacco control in the World Health Organisation have shown, there is a worldwide trend towards increasingly far-reaching control of what the World Health Organisation refers to as the tobacco epidemic.Madam President, how far should we take this? How far are we allowed to take it? I witnessed the concern expressed in our Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market over the implications of the ruling of the Court of Justice of 5 October for the directive concerning tobacco advertising, and I echo the view that it will have a considerable impact on this directive and also on EU public health policy in general. I also feel that the arguments for closer involvement of the European Parliament, i.e. greater transparency and better democratic control, have gone from strength to strength. Adjustments had to be made to the draft directive and some have been proposed this time round as well. I just think it is a shame that our Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market has been unable to make a constructive contribution in terms of the content of the directive. I would be most interested to hear the Commissioner’s view of the issues surrounding this legal basis. I think it is important for us to know what he thinks. The political basis is clear: harmonisation of the market whilst maintaining a high standard of public health and consumer protection, and building on existing legislation and advanced scientific knowledge.We really must strengthen the functioning of the internal market, for example by mutual recognition of test results and the development of common standards. Those who adhere to them would not then be required to fulfil various additional conditions depending on which country they happen to be in. This is not a crusade against smokers, nor is it a ban on smoking. That would be undesirable and would also be unworkable in any case. What we are aiming to do is to achieve an enhanced sense of personal responsibility, and hopefully help deter young people from smoking. According to the World Health Organisation, there are 1400 smoking-related deaths annually in the European Union. That is almost one per minute. Eighty per cent of new smokers each year are below the age of 18, and the majority of them are young women who predominately smoke the so-called ‘light’ cigarettes. So it is vital to impose a ban on these misleading descriptions, and the product must be subject to controls. It is the most readily available product in the European Union, but we know more about the contents of a pot of jam and the ingredients of cola than we do about the average cigarette. This directive will ensure that we at last get to know what cigarettes contain and why. Once in possession of these facts, we must proceed to draw up a common list of permitted ingredients of the kind that already exists in incomplete form in the United Kingdom, France, Belgium and Germany. However, I sense that the Commission is reluctant to take this step and do not really understand why. This Parliament would like to see a commitment to drawing up this list before 2005, during the tenure of this Commission, or at least to see it proposed by then. We therefore insist on the Member States providing the necessary information in good time. Provision must be made to ban at an earlier stage ingredients that increase physiological dependency. It is very important to establish maximum tar, nicotine and carbon monoxide levels. However, I do wonder whether our efforts are going to be able to do a lot for public health standards in the long run. Nicotine addiction is a complex matter. The harmful effects are largely caused by the tar, carbon monoxide, and other ingredients, and we need to find out more about the damaging, but perhaps even the positive, aspects of nicotine addiction.It is obvious that what is unhealthy for European consumers is also unhealthy for other consumers and therefore ought not to be exported. I am willing to consider establishing a derogation for this purpose, lasting three years or so. During this time, companies would be able to make the necessary production and marketing modifications, so that jobs are not needlessly transferred to countries outside the European Union.Health warnings need to be improved. The European Parliament has gratefully made use of Canadian research findings, and I feel we will go further down this line in time. We are not ready to go that far at this stage. That said, we do feel that health warnings should be at least as big as they are in Poland, where they now cover 30% of the packet and I am disappointed that the Council did not want to go further than 25%.Madam President, I hope this Parliament will support the amendments tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy.IN THE CHAIR: MR PUERTAVice-PresidentPresident. – Thank you very much, Mr Maaten.Mr Byrne has the floor, on behalf of the Commission, and he can clarify the Commission’s position on the legal basis.
Thank you very much Mr President, thank you very much Commissioner for your detailed explanation. We are all agreed that we have to combat terrorists, but that must not be allowed to become a licence for things that we ultimately cannot justify. I have to say to you, Commissioner, you have not convinced me this evening. First of all, you said that the transfer by the customs bureau is a matter of concern to you. At the moment the Commission, in recital 20 of the decision, refers to passing on to other government bodies, including foreign government bodies. A few days ago we heard for the first time that it is a matter of concern to you how this is organised. A few months ago you asked Parliament for an adequacy finding. Meanwhile, both Mr Bolkestein and yourself have informed us that there is no adequacy finding as yet in fact.Then the question of the agreement itself. Parliament has asked for a real international agreement. Parliament has asked for non-discrimination in the use of the data for EU citizens. Parliament has asked for equivalence in the United States and efficient, independent opportunities to correct incorrect data and a clear judicial process for EU citizens who get into difficulties. You said that there will be reciprocity. Well, Commissioner, Article 6 of the agreement states that where feasible and on the basis of strict reciprocity, the cooperation of airlines falling under its jurisdiction will be actively promoted. That is not reciprocity. Article 1 states what we have to do. The CBP gets electronic access to the PNR data in the reservation and departure systems of airlines based on the territory of the Member States of the European Community. Such as is strictly in accordance with the decision and as long as the decision remains in force. This means that we are legalising something that we wanted to avoid all this time and that is the reason for asking Parliament now for a real agreement, that has the consent of Parliament. You say this is not necessary, because the legal basis that the Council has chosen is Directive 95/46/EC and this agreement would not change the content of the Directive. How can you say that now when Article 2 of the agreement provides that everything will be handled in accordance with the laws of the United States? In my view, this means we are introducing the laws of the United States here. This is not a genuine agreement. This is an agreement about which Mr Bolkestein says that many matters have still not been resolved. I have not mentioned the connection between this agreement and CAPS II, but the undertakings to that also state that this agreement will shortly also be linked to the new, advanced CAPS II system in the United States. The US Congress has said that this is no good and has sent it back to the competent bodies.To cut a long story short, the way this deal has come about is not right. Mr Bolkestein promised in September that Parliament would be treated as a full partner. Unfortunately, he has not kept this promise. Indeed it is much worse than that, the European Commission and the Council have deliberately tried to sidetrack Parliament. Under the Treaty, Parliament was required to give its consent, but you have chosen not to do that. That was also the reason why I argued the case in Parliament and got President Cox to recommend through the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market that an appeal be made on the grounds of Article 300, paragraph 6, of the Treaty to have this agreement tested by the European Court of Justice. That is the only way left to us to do something about this agreement and to adequately protect our citizens. At the moment they are not adequately protected. I think that is extremely regrettable. I would have liked to see you withdraw the agreement.I agree with you that terrorism is appalling, but just to use all that as a licence to ride roughshod over our laws and give the Americans access to our data without legal protection, because the American Constitution and the Privacy Act do not apply to European citizens, is going too far. I beg you therefore once again to withdraw this agreement and to come to Parliament with a real agreement.
Mr President, one part-session follows another and, as far as I am concerned, they are all starting to look alike. Last time, I declared an interest in the radio and television broadcasting sector. I must now repeat this statement with regard to this report. I shall not therefore take part in any votes on the matter. What is more, I shall have to repeat this same declaration in relation to the following report, by Mr van Velzen, unless you would care to take note of my statement on the subject as of now.
Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, I would like to congratulate the President-in-Office on the successful conclusion in Copenhagen of an outstanding Danish presidency. It is rare in my experience for a presidency to receive such wide praise from all sides of this House. The improvement in relations between the Council and Parliament has been notable, and we owe much in this regard to the role of our former, much-esteemed colleague, Mr Haarder. The outcome of the summit is a tribute to the negotiating skills of Mr Fogh Rasmussen and the persistence both he and his team displayed. Their decision to focus single-mindedly on enlargement paid off handsomely: Europe can now reunite.However, we must not be complacent. The full application of the Copenhagen criteria, both in the new countries and in the existing Member States, must remain a matter of concern. Moreover, there are referenda to be won in all the new countries – referenda in which each and every one of us can play an important part, if we so choose.Copenhagen offers Bulgaria and Romania the prospect of greater pre-accession aid and the objective of membership in 2007. While these two countries will clearly be in the next wave of enlargement, we should continue to be guided by the principle that each candidate will be judged on its own merits.Liberal Democrats would have preferred an earlier review of Turkey's readiness for accession. However, Turkey is clearly now on the path to membership and, if the Copenhagen criteria are met by the end of 2004, my group will hold the governments to their commitment to open membership negotiations.An agreement on the United Nations plan to reunite Cyprus would have been the icing on the cake of the Copenhagen Council. Nonetheless, we remain optimistic that agreement can be reached so that a united Cyprus can sign the Accession Treaty in April 2004. We hope that Turkey will seize the opportunity to confirm its European vocation by putting pressure on Mr Denktash to reach a compromise.However, celebrations over the historic decision to reunite Europe – and I welcome the very prominent role played by Liberals in the Council, Commission and Parliament, whether those on the benches in front of us apply that label to themselves or not – should not be allowed to overshadow another significant breakthrough at Copenhagen. That was the agreement with Turkey to allow the EU's Rapid Reaction Force to go ahead and have access to Nato's resources. Europe's security and defence ambitions can now be put to the test as the EU takes over Operation Amber Fox in Macedonia. This may pave the way for more ambitious missions in the future, including peace-enforcement operations in accordance with the UN Charter.A wider Europe must be prepared to shoulder its responsibilities in the world, whether in the Middle East – I congratulate the Council on its firm declaration on that conflict – or elsewhere. We must be a bulwark for freedom and democracy and a force for justice. In building that strength, we owe much to Denmark.(Applause)
Madam President, this White Paper between ourselves is worth more than all the recent grandstanding speeches of national leaders, because it combines clarity of purpose with a substantial degree of self-criticism. President Prodi has drawn attention to the paradox that people want the Union to be doing more in several fields but they still distrust the system of government. The Commission is therefore quite right to focus on improving the Commission's representative capacity, especially at the pre-legislative stage. I would also want a strong emphasis on improving the post-legislative phase, monitoring far more closely the way European policies are put into effect on the ground.My group welcomes the Commission's emphasis on decentralised management and on a reinforced role for the regions. The European region plays a vital part as the intermediary between the citizen and the supranational authorities. We also note the kind suggestion that Parliament feeds into the European system the views of its own electors. What else we are up to, I am not quite sure. But the place that we intend to do this is in the new convention that we trust will be set up at Laeken, a concept that strangely receives not a single mention throughout the entire White Paper.Would Mr Prodi agree that the White Paper will be a most sensible contribution to the work of that convention? Would he say exactly the way he sees the furtherance of the work on the White Paper fitting in with that of the convention?
Thank you for your answer, Commissioner. I am very glad that we are to be told the result of the questionnaire at the next meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. I nonetheless sense from your answer that there is a very big difference between the status of the individual Member States, as we knew there was before 1 December. Only a very short time has, of course, elapsed. In view of the health situation, a particularly long period ought not to be allowed to elapse, out of consideration for both consumers and farmers. This is also because, right now, there is distortion of competition between farmers in the individual Member States, because the compensation offered is very different from one country to another. I hope it will not be the slowest, but the fastest, countries which set the pace, for I am completely convinced that it is in that way that we shall achieve a result in which all the current 15 EU countries have implemented these BSE decisions.
This is a related question. Perhaps it is not related to the issue of the transport of animals over long distances, but to that of transport to abattoirs and what happens before then.By adopting a number of reports, we in Parliament have embarked upon the long road towards making food in Europe safe. When does the Commissioner intend to produce draft directives to make animal husbandry safe, that is to say the breeding of animals, how we treat the animals we eat, how we transport them to abattoirs etc.? When will these directives be part of the long chain?
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the German Presidency has had to assert itself within a particularly dramatic context.The first six months of this year have demonstrated, once more, the need for European integration on the one hand and the need to continue the process of enlargement on the other. With regard to the latter, the war in Kosovo reminds us of the wisdom of the Copenhagen criteria which stipulate, amongst other things, respect for human rights on the part of all applicant countries as a precondition for their accession to the European Union.The Cologne European Council, which unquestionably confirmed this double ambition, shows us the enormity of the task still to be undertaken and the additional efforts which are required in this area. The European Council meeting in Cologne, despite all the efforts of the Presidency-in-Office of the Council – to which I would like to pay particular tribute – still nevertheless raises some major questions. I would like to highlight two of them.The first relates to point 53 of the conclusions of the Presidency-in-Office of the Council, and I would like to ask the German Foreign minister how we should interpret the mandate of the Intergovernmental Conference and particularly – and I quote – the possible use of qualified majority voting in the Council – end of quote – in view of the declaration of Belgium, France and Italy, annexed to the Treaty of Amsterdam. I would like to ask you whether these three Member States who, in Amsterdam, made the reinforcement of the institutions an essential condition, and therefore a prerequisite, for the conclusion of preliminary accession negotiations, still maintain the reservations annexed to the Treaty of Amsterdam, or whether they have moderated their position in the meantime.My second question concerns the common security policy, particularly with regard to defence. In my opinion, any European Union defence policy will overlook the basic problem for as long as the Member States do not accept the indivisible nature of security in the territory of the European Union. We are still not there. To this end, I would like to ask Minister Fischer if he envisages, apart from the conclusions of Cologne, a short or medium-term perspective on allowing accession to those countries which have not signed up to Article 5 of the amended Treaty of Brussels, that is, the mutual assistance clause which binds countries which are currently Members of the Western European Union. I believe that the subsequent and essential stages will depend on this question if we want to realise the contents of the provisions of Chapter J IV of the Treaty of Maastricht.
Mrs President, the Charter includes a number of welcome points. The right to good administration, which Mrs Malmström also talked about, is one of the most important advances of all. That right does not exist in other international documents, and it is absent from the constitutions of many Member States.Access to a more open administration is one of the most practical improvements the Charter can offer our EU citizens. The Charter also opens the way to minority rights because Article 22 says that the European Union must respect cultural, religious and linguistic diversity. Such respect, combined with a ban on discrimination, creates a basis for securing the position of minorities in the future.The method of working has been a success. It has been so successful that, in his speech last Friday, the Finnish Prime Minister singled out the method as a way of coming up with ideas in anticipation of a future EU constitution. This is something I consider to be important. It is also important, however, that the EU should subscribe to the Conventions on Human Rights. The two belong together.Finally, I am delighted to note that children too are mentioned. I hope that this provides a basis for Commissioner Vitorino to take measures to ensure that the EU can make a contribution before this autumn's summit on the position of children. I am also very proud to see that a representative of my parliamentary group in my own country, Gunnar Jansson, played a very important role when this Charter was drawn up. I believe he has contributed to the clarity to which Mrs Berès referred in this Chamber. The Charter is clear and concise and could be a model for many other constitutions.
Mr President, Mr Aznar, Mr Prodi, ladies and gentlemen, as a Member from the Canary Islands, one of the Community’s outermost regions, and a member of the European Liberal and Democratic Reform Group, I warmly welcome the Presidency-in-Office of the Council.Do not forget, Mr Aznar, to deal with the outstanding issues facing us in this six-month period to come, during which enlargement and the euro are presenting the European Community with a very special kind of landscape, in which the whole world is more or less affected for various reasons which oblige us to make constant, permanent and joint efforts to achieve peace and prosperity.I must remind you that, in our European sphere, in all the pillars of the Community edifice, we have maintenance problems. Therefore, Community policies must include something which you have pointed out: ‘more Europe’. And this is true, especially when it comes to reviewing the CAP, the Structural Funds, the consolidation of the situation of the outermost regions and creating a genuine European immigration strategy. It is also true when it comes to institutional reforms, defining the role and the participation of the regions in the construction of the Europe of the Twenty-first Century and an appropriate environmental policy, without forgetting the fields of social policy, that is, employment and the SMEs.Neither must you forget, in your dual capacity as President-in-Office of the Council and Spanish Prime Minister, to export more Europe to the world. To this end, we must review the Union’s external relations – such as the Council’s common position on Cuba and the future of the Sahara, by means of a self-determination referendum – without forgetting the dialogue with our Mediterranean neighbours – from Morocco to the Middle East – or with more distant regions, such as Latin America, with the problem of Argentina, or the United States and China.Of course you can count on our support, as always, in the joint European political fight against terrorism.I wish you luck in this special mandate and I trust that we will all be able to celebrate together following your success in the June exams, because what is good for Europe is good for everybody, especially the outermost regions.
We voted against certain points in Mr Bullmann’s report on the European Council’s Spring Summit 2002, the Lisbon process and the direction to be followed in future.We are basically well-disposed towards the European Union. Through European integration, cross-border problems can be solved more effectively than they would be if they were only to be tackled within each Member State. Such problems may relate, for example, to the environment, trade, movement across borders, human rights and conflict management. As Liberals, we also believe, however, in the subsidiarity principle. Every political decision should be made as close to those affected by the decision as is possible and appropriate. Those issues which are not clearly of a cross-border nature, or those cases in which there are clear differences between different countries or regions should therefore be dealt with at local, regional or national level. The EU should concern itself with those issues it is best qualified to deal with.Social and employment policies are areas we believe are best addressed within each country, region or municipality. The EU should only have limited competence within these areas. Each Member State should have full responsibility for its social security systems and the right to make its own decisions about them. To quote examples, neither child care nor employment policy is harmonised at EU level. These issues are not of a directly cross-border nature. Moreover, there are major differences between national and local opinions on what may be considered the best policy. Nor are all these issues best dealt with through political decisions. For example, high growth and sound competition are more important for employment than political measures. That would not, however, prevent the EU’s Member States from cooperating and exchanging ideas in the social sphere.Closely linked to social and employment policy is, of course, the tax burden. We are therefore also voting against European coordination in the area of tax. Taxes should be decided upon as close to the people as possible.Social issues, equality, sustainable development and increased employment are important issues. We wholeheartedly support many of the ideas – though far from all of them – presented in Mr Bullmann’s report, but at national or local level.
Mr President, let us no longer use the word enlargement, but rather talk about accession, or even better, the reunification of Europe. The candidate states have spared no effort to meet the requirements. It is clear, though, that some countries have made more headway than others. This is why it is impossible to set a general date of accession; each country is welcome as soon as it has met the Copenhagen criteria, either before or after the European elections. It is remarkable that the national documents are often far more upbeat than the Brok report. We do not do the candidate countries any favours by scaling down the requirements or making out that the situation is better than it is. A great deal still needs to be done. This includes issues such as democracy, the constitutional state, decentralisation, the fight against corruption, EU regulations, industrial changes, consumer protection, environmental measures and agricultural reform. The EU must pull out all the stops in order to support the candidates in these areas and not raise any new barriers, of course. And all parties must aim for the shortest possible transitional periods, if any at all. It is better to have a sound accession at a slightly later date than a premature one which proves inadequate.I have noted a dangerous trend. Frustration in the candidate countries is mounting because they feel the accession process is taking far too long. And at the same time, there is growing resistance to accession among the population within the Member States. And even the European politicians have insufficient insight into the negotiating process. If this situation does not change, the whole reunification will be up in the air.I would therefore call on the government leaders to assume their responsibility and to stop this trend in its tracks. They must enter into a dialogue with their own people, and thereby convince them of the huge importance of peace, stability and prosperity across the entire continent, and of the historic importance of the reunification of Europe.
The third part of my question is slightly broader. I ask by what authority can the validity of a CE mark be challenged? The Commissioner has said in his first answer that it was not the Commission that would make a ruling and in his second supplementary he said that it would be the competent national authority. Is there any system of mutual recognition of a ruling by one national authority, or would it be necessary to challenge the use of a CE mark on something like a stun gun separately in each of the 15 Member States? Is there not some overall body that can say this is valid? It seems to be a very long-winded process if it has to be challenged 15 separate times.
Mr President, Mr Verhofstadt, at the end of your Presidency, the situation is now very different from one year ago: the atmosphere has changed completely. We can roll up our sleeves, and you have indeed put three men in charge. I am interested to see how many members the delegation of the European Parliament will have in the Convention. We will count them when the time has come.You have tabled the questions, a great many questions and the right ones, in my view. Maybe we could add the odd question here and there. Why not? In my opinion, the Convention should have that flexibility.You outlined a dream a moment ago. In my view, it was a very fitting account, a very attractive prospect of what we ought to do, not only we Western Europeans, the Fifteen, but also Eastern Europe and the rest of the world. However, I would like to ask one more thing, Mr President-in-Office. You have now held the Council Presidency for six months. We now face seven years in which the Belgian Government will not be President again. I would ask you to convince all your Ministers of the fact that, during those seven years, European work is of extreme importance, that the government should not only occupy itself with European issues during the Presidency but also mainly outside of that time, for that period is longer and, most of all, certainly as important.
I thank the Commissioner for his statement. Only in the last two sentences did he mention the role of the Food and Veterinary Office in Dublin. Since the Bureau has been in existence for some six or seven years, I wonder why it did not find this out sooner. As the Commissioner stated, the problem involving nitrofen has been around for some five or six years. If the Food and Veterinary Office in Dublin is indeed supposed to check the inspectors in the Member States, then it is a little late in tracking down this instance of food contamination. Why is that? Can the Commissioner give an explanation for this? How often, for example, have inspections taken place and how often do inspections take place in other countries to check on this type of thing and especially on organic production.
Mr President, I too should like to start with a word of thanks to the two rapporteurs. I know that they have both worked hard on this topic from the outset.I should first of all like to turn my attention to the Bösch report. As the, we have tabled a few amendments to this report, to the effect that we consider mid-2002 somewhat premature as a firm deadline for a public prosecutor. In order to avoid any misunderstandings, we are clearly in favour of a public prosecutor, but mid-2002 is slightly too early.In our opinion, more attention should be devoted to the future Member States in Central and Eastern Europe and we would therefore ask the Court of Auditors to issue a report on this as soon as possible, thus enabling us to assess whether these countries are also capable of managing their financial affairs effectively before they accede. Furthermore, OLAF must obviously work closely together with similar organisations in the new Member States.We would also like to make our position clear on the Theato report: we are in support of a public prosecutor, but the lion’s share of the amendments that have been adopted in committee, in most cases by one majority vote, go too far in our view.At this stage, we prefer a directive to a regulation. We want to avoid a confrontation course with the Council: the line of the Commission is preferable to the abundance of detail in the various amendments. If these amendments were to be adopted at this stage, we ought to revisit them in the Committee on Budgetary Control, for we believe that, at this stage, matters of this kind should attract the greatest possible consensus and that the decision should not be made by a narrow majority.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Maystadt, President of the European Investment Bank.My colleague, Olle Schmidt, the rapporteur, has already expressed the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs on the annual report of the EIB and has presented proposals which, according to our committee, would improve its operation and also meet the need to provide it with greater resources to fulfil its commitments.I would like to draw your attention to a very specific and topical point. In Laeken it was agreed that the EIB would carry out a study to create a financial instrument or institution which would guarantee that, in terms of the cooperation between the European Union and the third countries of the Mediterranean, the level of use of resources responds to the effectiveness and possibilities for development cooperation that the situation demands.We know that in the Mediterranean, in the medium term, very serious conflicts may arise with the European Union itself, and that in order to ensure our own peace and stability in the future it is necessary to strengthen this cooperation and ensure better application of resources which, according to the experience of the first MEDA programme, has only been 30%. Therefore, this initiative agreed at Laeken, of presenting a proposal or alternatives to increase the level of application, seems to us absolutely essential and urgent.Also, if this could be consolidated at the next meeting of the Special Council of Barcelona, we believe that it would be even more appropriate, because the whole issue of development cooperation with the Mediterranean was born in 1995 in Barcelona, under the Spanish Presidency. The current Presidency of the Council has also considered the issue of cooperation with the Mediterranean to be an urgent priority and we decisively support this initiative.
Mr President, Iraq today belongs to the Iraqi people. Freedom from the yoke of a terrible tyranny has been achieved. 30 years of vicious oppression, marked only by a few bloodied milestones of failed invasions abroad and genocidal assaults at home lie in the past. Yet guilty men and women are still at large. Trials are essential, but Iraqi judges cannot carry the burden alone. Their vulnerability is too acute to act in isolation of an international judicial framework and a freer Iraq lies vulnerable to gangs of organised criminals as well as to terrorist incursions. Securing her borders as well as the provision of increased protection for the Iraqi people are both imperatives today.Surely the time has come for Nato to join with the Coalition forces. These already number many nations, but lack the benefits of Nato's longstanding expertise and close coordination. The Nato umbrella could properly protect the UN's essential guiding hand in an advisory, humanitarian and developmental role. Without that protection the UN agencies simply cannot function.The keynote themes of the late and much mourned Ayatollah Mohammed Baqir al-Hakim included the demand for the full establishment of the rule of law and of the entrenchment of human rights in a federal constitution. Inward investment, the development of civil society, small businesses and citizens’ rights and freedoms, are also part of the democratic process that is starting to come together.We in the European Union have decades of confidence and experience in all these fields. Let us now take up the challenge and join, in every way we can, in the restoration of Iraq's rich culture and human diversity and her return into the family of nations, through the establishment of a free and democratic state.
Mr President, I too would like to start by congratulating Mr Bösch on his relentless efforts to turn OLAF into a success. There are many points in the present resolution which thecan endorse.Firstly – and this cannot be repeated enough – we think that at the forthcoming Intergovernmental Conference, a decision should be made in favour of setting up a European Public Prosecutor, which in its capacity as an independent body, will work to safeguard the financial interests of the European Union. We would call on the Commission to submit proposals to this effect as soon as possible. Also, the date mentioned in the report is important, in our opinion.We also endorse the proposal for an external chamber to enforce budget discipline, which will mainly be concerned with examining the financial liability of officials. In our opinion, it is important that this task is taken from the Commission, so as to take away any semblance of nepotism and such like.OLAF starts its first full working year this year. We will all have to wait and see what the outcome of that will be. Expectations are naturally very high. One aspect, however, could be improved on, namely the Supervisory Committee, as Mr Bösch calls it in his report. Everyone has a right to a defence, including those who need to be investigated by OLAF. We must see to it that these investigations are carried out as independently and fairly as possible. I would call on the Commission to submit proposals to this effect too.There has been a lot of publicity lately surrounding the issue as to whether or not OLAF should be able to investigate the European Investment Bank regarding the use of European funding, as well as the European Central Bank. Theis of the opinion that this should clearly be the case as these are European institutions too. They cannot remain outside OLAF’s general scope of investigation. We support the Commission so as to make this possible.Finally, over the past few years, the European Court of Auditors has become increasingly aware that fraud and irregularities in structural funds are on the increase, whilst those in agricultural funds are still excessive but are dropping. This is diametrically opposed to the opinion held by the Commission, which believes that fraud and irregularities occur far less in structural funds than they do in agricultural funds. This anomaly must be resolved without delay. The structural funds are gaining in importance all the time and form a large area of investigation for OLAF and the Commission.
Mr President, only a strengthened Europe can cope with enlargement. Only a strengthened Europe is immune to political opportunists who exploit dissatisfaction. That is why sweeping reforms are necessary and, hence, a widened IGC agenda.The Finnish Presidency only listened to minimalist governments and, unfortunately, turned a deaf ear to this Parliament. Portugal should not take a leaf out its predecessor’s book.It is of the utmost importance that the European Parliament and the Commission join forces for this IGC. In many ways, they share the same interests and the same insights. An essential component of this joint effort should, in any case, be this Parliament’s right of assent to the forthcoming changes to the Treaty. Of all priorities, this one is the most pressing. What is the Commission’s verdict on this?It also means that our Parliament President and the two representatives should be able to take part on an equal political footing and, therefore, not only within the working party, but also at the same political level as the Commission. There is no reason whatsoever why representatives directly elected by citizens should be involved in talks at a lower level than the Commission.Not only do we owe the sweeping reforms to the new Member States, but we owe them to ourselves. If we allow Europe to be watered down as a result of enlargement, we will drown in our own political quagmire.
Mr President, I want to make a point on the European Council in Ghent.It is a suggestion from the  Group, theand thes on paragraph 7, where we each have tabled an amendment, Amendments Nos 13, 9 and 5 respectively. The suggestion is an oral amendment to merge all of them to add at the end of paragraph 7: 'which adequately represents women, respects their human rights and ensures that Afghan women participate fully in building such a future'.
Mr President, Commissioner, we are about to see the approval of a framework for our food packaging. It feels almost like a symbolic act because we have almost concluded all the legislative work surrounding the Green Paper on Food Law. After everything else we have successfully resolved, we are now to create an overall framework. I hope we succeed.I wish to emphasise that we are concerned here with approving the principles that are to apply to material that comes into contact with food. We are not approving new materials as such, but saying how matters should proceed. In my view, the fact that we are laying down guidelines and establishing limits for what is to be approved is an example of good legislation. In the future too, packages will on many occasions have to be expressly approved in the light of the particular substances and food they are to be used for. For example, what is the fat content of the food with which the material comes into contact? I can guarantee consumers that we shall continue to be cautious so that, for example, phthalates are not released from soft plastic.As the Commissioner said, there are three principal new developments: the new administration, and thus transparency, resulting from the setting up of a European Food Safety Agency; the new principles incorporated into food legislation; and, finally, the opportunity to approve active, intelligent packaging. A majority in Parliament appears to be prepared to accept active packaging, that is to say packaging that can absorb oxygen and moisture in the environment or give off antioxidants. Research projects carried out demonstrate, for example, that tomatoes and fruit retain their proper form for longer in the active packaging. Correctly used, I believe that they can in actual fact lead to fewer additives. That would be an advantage, because we are concerned about a possible link between additives and the increasing number of allergies.I personally prefer active packaging around my bread. I myself came across an unopened package after two years and found the bread completely unchanged. As we said, active intelligent packaging should entail advantages for both consumers and manufacturers. I can also envisage situations in which such packaging helps us save energy, something which would of course be of value.One of the conditions of our approving the new types of packaging is that they should be compatible with Community legislation generally. The substances that have been allowed into food must be approved, and active packaging must not be misleading to consumers. A bad smell must not be covered by another smell. Intelligent packaging can provide us with information about the way in which food has been stored and thus show whether it has been stored suitably. We know, for example, that certain smoked food can be difficult to store in the right way. Let us hope that, in the future, intelligent packaging will be developed that shows, for example, how smoked fish has been treated and whether it has been treated properly. We know that, in this connection, problems have sometimes arisen involving listeria.As the Commissioner said, we shall have discussions concerning the recycling of material, for the requirements have become stricter when it comes also to the use of plastic, metal and paper in packaging. It is important for new regulations, backed by this regulation, to be adopted and for us to know with certainty that food packaging needs to be approved to ensure that it is safe.More rules concerning traceability will be adopted, supported by, and in line with, the previously adopted legislation. In its work, Parliament has tried to emphasise that the information to be preserved is that which is needed for investigating problems that may arise later. I also believe that the rules on traceability that we are now laying down are important if all the parties are to have equal opportunities to be suppliers to large chains of food stores. I am pleased that we have set out clear rules governing the language used and public access to records. That aspect of the Commission’s proposal was not entirely clear.Had there been more rules on the subject of unambiguous, binding regulations to promote sound administration, we should probably have avoided a number of amendments. That was not, however, the case. We therefore need to clarify matters here and now. For my part, I regret the fact that the Council and the Commission did not wish to approve the independence of the Food Agency.I hope that we can adopt this report at a single reading. That would be the case if we were to vote in favour of blocks one and two. That would be in keeping with the position at which we had arrived in our negotiations with the Council and with what COREPER approved last week. I see no reason, however, for approving Amendment No 17.I wish to thank the Commission and the Council for their constructive cooperation. Above all, I wish, however, to say a big thank you to the secretariat of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, as well as to our helpful official, Mrs Köykkä, for her excellent work. It has been a pleasure to collaborate with her.
The European Commission should compile a timetable for the Member States, specifying who is going to achieve what, when and how. The European mini-summit in Berlin has once again demonstrated that everyone is agreed on the objectives but not on the actions to be taken, and so we are not making any headway. Replacing the current vague agreements with a timetable with exact objectives should help the Heads of Government find a way to invigorate the knowledge economy and make the European labour market more flexible.In addition, during the Spring Summit, the Commission should indicate what has been done about removing superfluous legislation, of which, according to the Commission’s promises to European industry, 25% is to be deleted. By reducing the burden of administration, companies will once again have the chance to be enterprising and thereby generate economic growth. A European 'super-Commissioner' for economic affairs is not the answer. Germany’s Chancellor Schröder should have known this, for the German 'superminister' for Economic Affairs and Employment, Wolfgang Clement, has not managed to prevent the German economy from still achieving one of Europe's lowest growth rates.
Colleagues will recall that we dealt with this matter in urgent procedure in October. I am pleased to be able to report that the Council has now accepted the legal base that was being proposed. However, we would contest the fact that neither of the two appendices is attached to the proposal, although we understand the reasons why. Nonetheless, we discussed this in committee last night and we recognise the urgency. We would propose an urgent procedure without report. It would then be up to the political groups to put forward amendments, which might be similar to those we adopted in October.(Parliament agreed to urgent procedure)
Mr President, it is precisely because Serbia has chosen the democratic path that there is reason for the European Parliament to remind everyone of two fundamental requirements that are made of any democratic state governed by law, namely that political freedom must prevail – one must not be able to be imprisoned for one’s political views or for the ethnic group to which one belongs – and that persons suspected of crimes – whether political leaders or common villains – must be put on trial so that their guilt and responsibility can be examined. Consequently, all political prisoners in Serbia must be freed.The injustices committed by Milosevic must now come to an end. It is worth repeating that we make the same requirements of the political leaders in Kosovo. The persecution of minorities can never be justified. The new political leadership in Serbia must act in such a way, and I would like to point this out, Mr President, so that the former president and dictator Milosevic, together with his partners in crime, can be brought before the international war crimes tribunal in The Hague. It is there that Milosevic belongs and not at party conferences in Belgrade.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it has been interesting to draw up this report through a Hughes Procedure between two committees. In most cases I believe we have succeeded in creating a certain cohesion between the committees and also with the previous reports on the same issue which were also mentioned earlier. I also believe that the rapporteurs have tried to achieve such cohesion, particularly with regard to creating a bridge between the previously approved reports and this report. That is excellent, but on certain points I believe we have not succeeded in this yet. This is particularly true with regard to the TV standards which appear in some of the amendments.We have also fought a great deal over the term “co-regulation”. In this case I find it easier to and will accept what the rapporteur has put forward, but it does not sound quite as good translated into many of the other languages. Co-regulation meaning an authority which in the final instance oversees the balance is acceptable, but some of the translations of the report talk loosely about common provisions, and that is not as descriptive.Balance in this report is important. I believe that, when voting tomorrow, we should ensure that there is a balance in the provisions between, on the one hand, ‘must carry’ obligations and financial compensation for those required to follow them and, on the other hand, compensation for the telecommunications companies which have obligations under the other regulations. I also believe that tomorrow we must ensure that there is still a comprehensive directory service, something which we can only achieve if there is a financial benefit to operating such a service. We must not forget this when voting tomorrow or in the coming Directive on the processing of personal data and the protection of privacy in the electronic communications sector.
Mr President, allow me to start by regretting that the Council established its policy as early as the end of February without waiting for the opinion of the European Parliament. Although it has taken a long time to get this report through Parliament, that does not give the Council an excuse to disregard Parliament’s role in the legislative process.Having said that, I believe that the directive concerns a very central area of the debate on immigration and integration. It is a fact that family reunifications among third country citizens contribute between 40 and 50% of the total number of immigrants into the EU.The directive will help to produce greater clarity concerning the rules, improved integration and a fairer distribution of the burden within the Community. At the same time, the directive gives the Member States sufficient opportunities to prevent inadvertent economic immigration.It must be emphasised that family reunification helps to secure values that are entirely fundamental to every individual: the family unit and a normal family life. On behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, I have supported the proposed amendment that creates a wider definition of family and also brings third country citizens with subsidiary protection within the rules on family reunification. At the same time, however, I do not consider it wrong for us to link certain requirements to the rules on family reunification. I still believe that the Member States must have the opportunity to set requirements, for example in the form of a normal standard of accommodation, an income that ensures that the family can be provided for, and respect for public order and security, as well as the opportunity to establish a waiting period.It is my wish that this report will be adopted with as much support as possible in this House, and that the Council will then in future listen to the advice we give it.
Mr President, I asked Mr Lamy explicitly what he thinks of Taiwan joining the WTO in the context of the Republic of China’s joining. He has not given me an answer. May I have an answer?
Mr President, Europe is strongly committed to peace but is deeply frustrated by the latest terrorist attacks. For Europe, the Mediterranean is a crucial area, an historic challenge and until it is transformed into an area of peace, development, democracy and stability, Europe will not, I am sorry to say, be able to fulfil its potential.Today the conflict between Israel and Palestine is erasing any glimmer of hope and the worsening of the conflict is certainly not helping to combat international terrorism, indeed in ideological terms it is fuelling it. In order to ensure a future of peace in this area, however, greater responsibility is needed and all our efforts, our political authority and our financial and human resources must be used to ensure that we get back on the road to negotiations.The Athens Forum was therefore an important step, but this is not about supporting one side or the other. The route that we must take, even now that hopes for peace seem almost dead, remains that of working towards a clear objective: two states, one alongside the other, Israel and Palestine, that live in peace and security without discrimination and with respect for human rights. To this end, Europe must hold constant and open dialogue with the whole of the Arab world.
Mr President, I just wanted to protest at the decision of a majority of the Conference of Presidents not to send a delegation from the European Parliament to the first hearing of the trial of Leyla Zana, who is of course a Sakharov Prize laureate. This decision was, I am glad to say, opposed by theand also by theGroup, but the Conservatives, Socialists and Green Group insisted on cancelling the delegation. There had been lobbying from the Turkish side not to go, on the grounds that this was a sensitive time in Turkey. Of course it is, but since the views of the Turkish population on Iraq are shared by most EU citizens, the EU as such should be neither more nor less popular than normal.It is always a sensitive time to raise human rights and Kurdish rights in Turkey, but if we do not, we let down Turkey itself and its prospects of getting into the EU. I therefore hope this House will join with me in deploring the majority decision in the Conference of Presidents. I understand that a delegation will be sent to the second hearing on 25 April 2003, and I hope that arguments will not be found to cancel that as well. The first decision was utterly deplorable.
Mr President, I, too, wish to compliment my colleague Mr Cashman, in particular, and echo his tribute to Mrs Maij-Weggen. Progress has definitely been made. More and more documents have been put in the public domain. The question is, however, whether citizens can find them. Guaranteeing access is not sufficient. Accessibility is also chiefly to do with a clear structuring of the data. In this connection, Mr Cashman has called for Community codes and a register. I think that that is a good idea.Accessibility of data is an outstanding means of remedying the negative image of the European Union as remote and bureaucratic. In addition, openness and accessibility of data are an important key to democratisation. This morning, we voted on the McCarthy report. That is an example of tremendous citizens’ participation in legislation. Citizens must be able to familiarise themselves with the early stage of legislation in order that they may influence it. The computer is an incredibly effective means of involving citizens in this. On a personal note, I was absent from Parliament for three years, and was able to retrieve a large amount of the data I wanted by computer. However, I also frequently ran aground in the soup of links, and ended up empty-handed. I think that a good deal more must be done in that regard.The computer also represents an environmentally friendly and paper-saving way of working. I think, therefore, Commissioner, that we have to set to work in particular on extremely user-friendly computer programs. In my opinion, there is still room for improvement there.It is a crying shame, however, that the European Council, in particular, is defaulting. Countless complaints arrive at our door, especially in the fields of justice and foreign affairs. Nor does the lack of clarity over which Member State does what square with openness, or with the new Constitution, which extends obligations to all the institutions and agencies.I think that the proposal on this issue was one of the last in a series of good ones by Mrs Maij-Weggen, and I shall gladly support it.
Mr President, I am pleased that the Commission brought forward the consultation document. It would have been useful, however, to have brought it forward before Mr Cercas drew up the report, but I am very pleased that we were able to table oral amendments. Nevertheless this is not the ideal way of working and I would like to register that point.I tabled a number of amendments, a lot of them with theGroup, and some of my own. The main point – and I am very pleased the Commissioner touched on this – is that the individual opt-out should be kept, but that it should be truly voluntary and measures should be taken to tackle any abuse. But as Mr Bushill-Matthews said, that abuse is not as widespread in the UK as the rapporteur leads us to believe. Indeed, as Mr Bushill-Matthews and the rapporteur have repeatedly said, the authors of the research – Barnard, Deakin and Hobbs – stated that the abuse was widespread. Those people have distanced themselves from what you have written in your report and indeed would distance themselves from your statement today.To answer Mr Hughes' point, one of the reasons for maintaining the opt-out is that in the UK we do not have collective agreements. That is one of the main reasons we use the opt-out. Other Member States use derogations because they have collective agreements. Decisions can be made between both sides of industry: trade unions and employers will get together and decide what they want to do on the Working Time Directive. But because we do not have that – at least not to any great extent – we need the flexibility for our businesses to be able to cope.Wages are not a competence of the EU, nor should they be. We should not be discussing pay. But workers in the UK are on low wages, even though we have a national minimum wage. They quite often add to their take-home pay by doing overtime. If we get rid of the opt-out, there will be many cases of workers not being able to do overtime and therefore not getting a reasonable pay level. We are not the only country that uses it either: Germany, France, the Netherlands, Spain and Luxembourg are all either using it or going to use it in the health or catering industries.Another problem is the length of reference period. Tourism and agriculture have a particular problem because of different working patterns and because of the times of year that they work. The Commission must also look at the SIMAP and Jaeger judgments. It is very important that we do that on health and come forward with proposals.I hope enough MEPs will join us tomorrow when we vote, in particular those Labour MEPs who voted against us in committee and against the UK Labour Government.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as the mayor of New York, Rudolph Giuliani, stated before the United Nations General Assembly, the terrorist attack of 11 September was an attack on the very ideal of free, inclusive, civilised society and on its practice of openness and tolerance. The attack will be unsuccessful only if we are able to enhance these characteristics rather than weaken them.Our initial response, our initial reaction must be to switch off the psychological ‘emergency’ mode and get a grip on our agenda. Therefore, I welcome the commitment to be made at Ghent to proceed with the debates on the euro, enlargement and the political integration of Europe at Laeken and through the Convention.It is in this sense that the fight against terrorism must be seen as part of a series of structural operations. In the area of air safety, for example, we must proceed on two levels: on the one hand, there is an urgent need for a revision of the Regulation establishing the European Air Safety Authority, extending its responsibilities to include accident prevention and – if we can call it that – terrorism prevention; on the other, we need incisive action from the International Civil Aviation Organisation to ensure that the rules we are seeking to adopt for Europe become rules which are binding upon the whole world.Europe must be capable of taking the initiative in this and many other minor areas to express all that potential for peace and democracy which is its strength and must become the strength of the whole world.
Mr President, today’s debate concerns the major challenge at the turn of the millennium: to unite Europe in order to create peace and security, together with social, economic and environmental development. Unfortunately, these sentiments have had to yield to technical arguments in the course of the negotiations. The requirement for becoming an EU Member State is that of complying with the basic Copenhagen criteria. Negotiations must, in the first place, be aimed at easing the way to accession by the candidate countries. Naturally, they must comply with EU legislation, but I think it is sometimes rather hard to say that these countries must do this from day one. There are Member States of the European Union which have not in actual fact complied with everything, in spite of their having been Member States from the beginning.This debate has been going on in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy. It is being said in certain quarters that a country must meet the requirements before it becomes a Member State. I think it is important to note that the condition of the environment will not improve as a result of these countries staying outside a little longer. Instead, we ought to try to help them as much as possible and as early as possible, as well as perhaps opting to accept rules that specify rather longer transitional periods.In this context, it is a question of rousing public opinion in favour of enlargement. We cannot afford to lose more of the momentum that existed at the beginning of the Nineties. We have already lost quite a lot of this. I believe it is a matter of urgency that those of us in this Chamber, in the Commission and in positions of national leadership should take responsibility. We must no longer hide behind democratic considerations and say that we must listen to public opinion. It is time to lead European opinion in the right direction.It has more to do with political objectives and political will than with technical solutions. We must explain this to people in the candidate countries and especially in our own Member States if the enlargement process is to be successful. And there is no time to waste.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mr Sterckx’s report takes an important stand on the maritime environment. With effective action we will protect waters in which people bathe, safeguard the supply of clean fish to eat, and improve maritime ecology, especially in enclosed sea areas. Oil from ships is very dangerous in many ways and for that reason pollution offences must be dealt with firmly and by making those who contribute to them accountable.The committee has reached an excellent conclusion, which Mr Sterckx’s amendments make more specific. There is one point I nevertheless cannot support as it stands: the proposal for a common coastguard goes just a bit too far. As the coastguard also has many other responsibilities, this should be considered in the wider context.Mr Poignant has done some good work with regard to his own report. There is just one detail in it, however, that should be addressed. I too am in favour of ships displaying the emblem of the European Union. The amendment to display the emblem on national flags is problematic, however, as the rapporteur has also said himself. It would require a debate on flag legislation in the Member States. If this amendment is dropped, it will be possible to bring this whole issue to a swift conclusion.
Mr President, this IGC will be supported by two parallel processes: the brave new world of a European defence policy and the defining of European citizenship within the drafting of the charter. I trust that these separate but closely related processes will galvanise the IGC, just as the drive towards the single currency stimulated the Maastricht conference. We certainly need stirring up. At present, despite the good work of the rapporteurs, Parliament’s draft position is in danger of being more conservative than the Commission’s, and the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party has tabled various amendments to seek to sharpen the focus of the report and to speed up the development of a parliamentary Europe.Firstly, we want a real process of conciliation between Parliament, the Commission and the Council in preparing the IGC. Secondly, we wish to change the Treaty revision procedure in those areas where power is already transferred to the European level. It is crazy for us to be obliged to undergo this ponderous and protracted Treaty revision procedure when we wish merely to reform a common policy. It is also wrong for Parliament to be excluded from that process. Thirdly, we wish to improve access of the citizen to the European Court so that the citizen will be a privileged litigant with ourselves, Member States and companies. Fourthly, we want a further look at the flexibility clauses so that certain Member States are able in practice to deepen their relationship without threatening the acquis.I commend the Liberal proposals to Parliament.
Madam President, I think it would be difficult for myself and the other speakers to find words more appropriate or of more use than those used today by the winners of the Sakharov prize, especially Mrs Peled-Elhanan and Mr Ghazzawi. But we must go on. Let us follow their example.I think that the Groups should congratulate ourselves on the agreement reached with regard to the recommendation, but it should be of concern to us that, even though we are not part of the conflict, it should have cost us more than what is reasonable to reach it.During the discussion, the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party attempted to give priority to both the agreement and a balanced position. However, I think there can be no doubt that our greatest demand is to be efficient, given that our purpose here is not to be conflict analysts, but to be politicians with responsibilities within the framework of the European Union. From this point of view, I think that the clear position that has been taken with regard to the Palestinian Authority and the Israeli Government is logical and in line with the position of the Council.However, while insisting on this required level of efficiency, I would like to associate myself with the opinions already expressed by Mrs Neyts-Uyttebroeck and Commissioner Patten, that there is much need for international action, that the conflict must stop and that the basic approach well established by the Mitchell report must be followed.In this respect, I would say that it is not sufficient to remain observers and apply pressure. In a conflict there needs to be strong advocates. The European Union, the United States, and, obviously, the UN and Russia, are all strong advocates, and it would be difficult to name another moment in history when it has been possible for them to act together in a such an efficient and balanced way. However, I believe, without a doubt, that this should be our priority: to be able to act as forceful and powerful advocates, if this is a possibility for all of those involved, for the gravity of this conflict requires this.
Mr President, Commissioner, I very much appreciate the fact that you have joined us here in Parliament to discuss the matter with us. In my opinion, and I think I can speak on behalf of everyone here present, the availability of information is essential to our democracy and, as has been stated before, to maintain our level of cultural development. I think that I would especially like to highlight this cultural aspect i.e. the cultural significance of books. This is exactly the reason why books should have an exemption position in cultural policy.In most countries, books are not subsidised, unlike other forms of culture, but this is not necessary. In my opinion, the government should mainly play a stimulating role. This is why in a large number of countries, including the Netherlands, which I represent, a decision has been made in favour of fixed book prices. In this way, we can avoid a scenario where mutual competition is so unfair that the wide and varied supply would diminish and that the easy access to information would be lost.You too have just noted yourself that Member States need to indicate themselves what measures they will take, whether they will conclude agreements or adopt legislation, but, Commissioner, language transcends boundaries. This is why I would also like to ask you three questions concerning the cross-border fixed book price. For various countries in Europe, this is an urgent matter. Some things have just come to light regarding Germany and Austria, but also in the Netherlands, activities in this sphere are closely monitored. This is important for the Dutch linguistic region but also, of course, for other linguistic regions.The first question concerns the large-scale mobility of people and new developments via e-commerce, which lead to a gradual fading of the borders. Do you not share my view that the lack of cross-border price fixing or, for example, its abolition, especially for small businesses – and with this I am back on the subject of employment – entails the risk that national regulations will be cancelled out by extensive importing? There is a risk that small bookshops will disappear, especially in the countryside and in smaller towns, and that with it, accessibility will decrease.My second question to you concerns the key significance of cultural integration, as is also included in the preamble to the oral questions. I actually feel that this aspect is given too little consideration. Cultural integration which transcends national borders is restricted if the fixed book price were to be scrapped and it is of particular importance to promote it in countries which share the same language. I think that fixed book prices are exactly the right instrument in this case. I fully agree with the ladies and gentlemen. The rules which are being drafted now should not be a hotchpotch. Each country is coming up with something but it would be preferable to find better solutions for this. I would like to urge you too to take swift action. This is a very long-winded affair. In my own profession, I have experienced exactly that for years and years. I think the time is right to take some decisions.Thirdly, I would like to express my concern regarding these detours because do you not think that because of these detours, it is easy to undermine the fixed book price from other Member States in the same linguistic region and that it is not a very effective means of safeguarding the special value of the book as a cultural object and the special significance of the book market for culture?These are three points which I would like to highlight. I believe that the consumer is not at all interested in lower prices. The consumer wants quality which should be sound and widely available.
Mr President, this report by Mrs Rühle is excellent, as it underlines the principles which the European Parliament has held as important when we have tried to improve our administration. The reports by Mrs Rühle and Mr Seppänen both concern the same issue: guarantees against loans granted to the European Investment Bank. In itself, the European Investment Bank is an excellent instrument for financing specific projects. As the EIB has a high degree of creditworthiness, it can acquire cheap capital from the markets and target it at those areas the EU considers necessary. In this way the direct need for financial aid diminishes. There is a budget guarantee for those loans for which the EIB is responsible on behalf of the EU, which amounts to 70%. Now the matter being raised is the reduction of this figure. The Commission is proposing 60%, but the Council has decided on a provisional rate of 65%. For that reason, Parliament must first determine its position on what the correct rate should be.In determining the percentage figure our starting point is that the EU should bear the principal political risk relating to the financing of projects. This means that if the political situation in a country in which a project is to be carried out continues as predicted, there is only a financial risk attached to lending. That is normally the responsibility of the party granting the loan. In fact, the EU guarantee has also borne part of the financial risk, as these two different factors cannot be clearly distinguished from one another. The percentage rate obviously has a bearing on how many loans can be guaranteed by a sum that is contained in the financial perspectives and which is at present EUR 200 million. In practice, changing the rate may not have an effect except as a means of regulating the overall amount of loans, as the guarantees do not often have to be paid.Mr President, with these remarks I would like to express my support for the reports by Mrs Rühle and Mr Seppänen.
Mr President, my group unconditionally condemns all violence in the Middle East. Victims among the civilian population are always unacceptable, whether they are at the hands of suicide attacks or the army. For years, Europe has tried to play a significant role in the conflict, but we are mainly fighting the symptoms rather than the root causes of the disease. What needs to happen is for people to start believing in the future again. People who have hope in the future have something to lose and are therefore prepared to fight for peace instead of plodding along in the status quo or, even worse, thinking that violence is the answer.In order to guarantee a promising future, we demand serious efforts from both sides. The Palestinian Authority must, in the first instance, adopt a much tougher stance with regard to suicide attacks. Terrorists are not heroes, but killers, and must be approached accordingly. In addition, the Palestinian Authority must reform, and stamp out corruption, so that the Palestinian population can have confidence in their leaders.Secondly, we ask Israel to call an end to the policy of using closures as a means of economic strangulation and humiliation. Payments to the Palestinians must also be resumed so that European money can once again be used for development projects in education and care rather than payment support. In addition, it remains unacceptable that settlements are still allowed to expand. The occupation and the settlements remain the biggest obstacle to real peace and security for everyone.I am ashamed of the lack of European resolve in the area of the Middle East. Every day, innocent people die, and all we do is settle for declarations and meetings. As Palestine's largest donor and Israel's biggest trading partner, we should surely be able to do something more to accomplish our own European goals.I should like to conclude with a comment about the forthcoming elections. Unfortunately, neither of the parties has put a sound peace plan on the table. It is really time that this was done, so that in January, Israelis and Palestinians will be able to vote for peace for themselves and for their neighbours.IN THE CHAIR: MR PUERTAVice-President
Mr President, the Commission’s and the ECB’s convergence report deals not only with the Greek, but also with the Swedish, convergence programme. So too does Mr Goebbels’ report, even if the part about Sweden is limited. The Swedish economy is doing well – very well. Mr Goebbels also points this out. In common with Mr Karas and Mrs Randzio-Plath, he also issues a reminder that the EU would be that much stronger if all the Member States were to participate in EMU. This is a timely reminder of something which is self-evidently the case. If one is going to join the EU, one should not do so by halves.Even if the economies of Great Britain, Denmark and Sweden are going well, it must be clearly pointed out, as it was by Commissioner Solbes Mira in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, that, if the spirit of the Treaty is to be complied with, no Member State can, in the long term, place itself outside so strategic an area of cooperation as the common currency. This could have been brought out more clearly in the report.The euro has provided greater stability. This has benefited companies, especially small companies. Price competition has increased, and there has been greater transparency. The euro is not weak. Instead, it is the dollar which is extremely strong. Allow me to remind those countries outside the euro zone that there is a danger of their influence declining further. Last week, we learned that France’s prime minister wants to see a Euro 11 – soon a Euro 12 – with more influence and power when it comes to economic and financial policy.At present, the economy is on the way up in Europe, but the clouds are gathering – in the United States and in Europe. You do not buy an umbrella once it has begun to rain. Instead, you buy an umbrella when the sun is shining so that you are prepared for when the rain comes. The euro provides Europe with economic stability and competitiveness.There are very strong economic and moral reasons why Sweden should join EMU. Sweden should also have an obligation to help increase Europe’s economic competitiveness. I should therefore have liked to have seen my home country, Sweden, being able to join with Greece today.
Mr President, Mr Oostlander’s report has been quite substantially modified at the committee stage, as other honourable Members have already commented. It is now more balanced, and this is undoubtedly an improvement. It is to be expected that a report like this one should make mention of a certain number of deficiencies and lapses, especially relating to issues of human rights and public freedoms. On all these points, I believe one can only agree with the rapporteur.On the other hand, I cannot agree as fully with one of the rapporteur’s personal preferences, which, though concealed for the most part by the amendments, is nevertheless latent and sometimes explicit. I am referring to what I would term Mr Oostlander’s pathological aversion to secularism and the secular ideal. This aversion also made an appearance in the brief oral presentation during which he mentioned what he called Turkey’s political philosophy. Through a consideration of the historical context, he likened this philosophy to totalitarianism, one of the most monstrous forms of political oppression Europe has ever spawned. In point of fact, Mr Oostlander, Kemalism was by no means a totalitarian system, and did not follow totalitarian models. Kemalism, which was unquestionably a form of enlightened despotism, set out to modernise Turkey rapidly, drawing its inspiration to a not inconsiderable degree from Western European democratic models, most notably those of the separation of Church and State and secular republicanism.You see, Mr Oostlander, as Turkey applies to join the European Union (and it is natural for that application to give rise to discussion and even argument), any pride it can take today in its positive historical legacy is attributable to that very attempt to introduce our European secularism into a Muslim society. For that, as some of the honourable Members have said, is the challenge, or one of the challenges, of the twenty-first century. I do not think there is any justification for adopting the disgruntled attitude you have shown towards the secular ideal in recital G of your report. Today’s Europe is rooted in that ideal, which stands out with great clarity, to my mind, in the Charter of Fundamental Rights we have accepted. You ought to adopt the opposite stance, welcoming the secular ideal more warmly and valuing it more highly.Mr President, Turkey had the right to apply for membership. I believe that it will have the right to remain at the application stage for some time, for its progress is slow and must be monitored closely by us. That does not give us licence simply to parrot the phrase ‘some progress, but could do better if he tried’, so beloved of schoolteachers. We must not forget that application for membership of the European Union is akin, for Turkey, to the United States’ experience of the concept of the frontier at the end of the nineteenth century. That kind of stirring, pioneering front provides the impetus to move further on. From that perspective, we must encourage Turkey’s application.(Applause)
Madam President, as previous speakers have said, it has proved to be an extraordinarily controversial process to get this far, especially for the British who have only now agreed to bring in a fair voting system, without which, it must be said, I would unlikely to be speaking here this afternoon. The British also accept that they have a responsibility to ensure that the citizens of Gibraltar can be represented in this place. I trust that the participation of Gibraltar within the European political system will soften some of the nationalistic tensions we have seen in that part of the Union.Several States have quite properly conceded the end of the dual mandate. This practice is contrary to the constitutional principle of the separation of powers and impairs Parliament's efficiency. So I congratulate the rapporteur and the Belgian and Spanish presidencies for brokering the agreement. I look forward to a further review of the uniform electoral procedure, by which time I trust that the Convention will have established the argument for regional seats in the larger States as well as for some element of a transnational list.
Mr President, Madam Vice-President of the Commission, I would like to start by saying that the debate in committee was lengthy and in-depth, and so the amendments accepted were not random but were the fruit of lengthy discussion. I too would like to thank the three rapporteurs, who have done an excellent job, and I think I can say that Parliament’s support for the Single Sky was confirmed both in the discussion in committee and in today’s debate, which have proved a constructive contribution to the creation of the Single Sky. However, if we want 2004 to remain the date for the introduction of this new airspace model, we will need, in my opinion, to pursue dialogue within the Council, particularly with those countries which are still sceptical – some of them are downright against the idea – and with the countries whose internal systems are in most need of modernisation, and here I am thinking of the problems which are clearly going to arise with enlargement, which is now imminent.I have noticed a political theme emerging during the course of the debate: the perpetuation of the myth that the Single Sky is an attack on the sovereignty of the individual States. It was even said in committee that it is an attack on the physical sovereignty of States over their territory. I feel it is important to make it clear that this myth is completely unfounded and that it is, of course, contrary to the spirit of the Treaties, but I fear that it is even becoming an issue in high-level negotiations.
Mr President, Commissioner, I rise to express the warmth and optimism with which the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party welcomes the start of negotiations with the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.We are extremely hopeful that, along the lines set out by the rapporteur, Mr Swoboda, this agreement can represent an example to be rapidly extended to the other countries, especially Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Montenegro and Kosovo and, as soon as possible, Serbia.We are convinced a rapid start to these negotiations and their speedy conclusion is the only way to achieve peace in the region – peace which did not automatically come with the end of the Kosovo war – thus avoiding the recurrence of further disintegration and a return to chaos and violence, with all the consequences of that in terms of continental, if not world, instability.If the maintenance of peace and security is the basic motivation of the current courageous process of enlargement of the Union to the countries of Eastern Europe, that motivation must be present even more strongly in relations with Albania and the countries of former Yugoslavia. And that means decisively pursuing the kind of parallel enlargement to south-east Europe that the agreements we are discussing represent.It is in that quasi-provocative spirit that we have presented an amendment suggesting the transfer of responsibility for south-east Europe from Foreign Affairs to Enlargement.Very rapid and direct involvement of south-east Europe in the life of the European institutions has also led us to suggest that a limited number of observers invited from the national parliaments should be accepted into the European Parliament, and that staff from those countries could work in the Court of Justice and the Commission. But if the development in the region of a more democratic society and largely market-based economy is to be encouraged, we are convinced that immediate and concrete steps must be taken to intensify the struggle against corruption and to make international aid more effective for reconstruction and development.With this in mind, we have presented some amendments which I hope Parliament will accept. First, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia should be offered a customs tariff equal to zero for their exports to the European Union and compensation for the progressive reduction of customs duties applied by Macedonia to European products, on condition that the principle of joint customs control at the frontiers of Macedonia is accepted. Secondly, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia should be encouraged, with adequate financial support, to gradually link its currency to the euro as the first step towards the Europeanisation of the whole Macedonian economy, with the additional aim of eliminating any possible corruption in the banking system. Thirdly, world aid and assistance coming into the region, and hence into Macedonia as well, should be clearly multilateral, and should not subject the beneficiary country to direct obligations towards the donor country.Mr President, Commissioner, we hope the agreement can achieve all its objectives but we cannot delude ourselves that peace, stability and prosperity in south-east Europe can be achieved without dealing with the very wide-ranging problems we are trying to eliminate. I am referring to the future constitutional state of Kosovo, the need to involve Serbia in the region’s reconciliation process and – why not? – new discussions on relations between the European Union, NATO and the UN, in the light of the new balance that needs to be found between humanitarian intervention and state sovereignty, which I think calls for a change in the existing UN Charter.
Mr President, Minister, Commissioner, I should like to start by thanking our fellow MEP, Mrs Dybkjær for an excellent report and welcoming her back to Parliament after her recent weeks’ campaigning. We know that Lone Dybkjær did what she could.I am a man in an EU within which men and women do not have equal opportunities. It is worth repeating that. Sometimes, some people – even colleagues in this Assembly – seem to believe that they do have equal opportunities, but they do not. Just as some people have said, it is enough to look at this Assembly: the majority are men, the majority of those making decisions are men, and when the European Council meets it consists solely of men. There is one female Head of State in Europe. It is therefore gratifying that the European Parliament is represented by a woman in these contexts.More women are needed in decision-making positions, because it is quite simply unacceptable that so much human ability is being lost. Women do have the ability – and without imposing quotas. This week we have taken a great step closer to a reunited Europe. Emphasising how matters stand regarding equality in the candidate countries is a particularly important task in the membership negotiations that are currently in progress.Some problem areas: women often have two jobs, unemployment is higher among women, childcare has deteriorated, there are too few women in decision-making positions, violence against women is on the increase in many candidate countries and several candidate countries are at the centre of the increasing trade in women.What can be done? Rapid membership of the EU will provide economic strength, better conditions for women and greater freedom of choice. The chapter on equality must be accorded equal importance in the membership negotiations. There must be no transitional periods. We must monitor whether the directive on equality is really being incorporated into legislation. Mainstreaming is very important in the internal policies of the candidate countries, too. An ombudsman for equality issues should be introduced, and in the candidate countries too. The EU should pursue a campaign to combat violence against women throughout Eastern and Central Europe. The EU should also take the initiative and organise a UN convention against the trade in human beings.I started by talking about my male status. Perhaps this issue of gender needs to be pointed out in this Assembly. On the basis of my own experience, if I may speak personally, I am convinced that Paragraph 15 of the resolution – stating the importance of men’s involvement in, and access to, good childcare – is the most important paragraph by far if equality and equal conditions are to be achieved for men and women.I should like to conclude by saying that equality begins in the home. If we cannot share tasks and responsibility in the small world of the home, there will never be real equality in the big world outside, either.
Mr President, the future status of the Charter was one of the four key questions bequeathed to us by the now famous Treaty of Nice for consideration at the IGC of 2004 and since Laeken, it is a central question confronting the Convention. This resolution, should it be passed, will represent a formal contribution to the Convention from the parliamentary delegation.We have looked at the impact so far made by the Charter as a solemnly proclaimed instrument and we have found that much use is made of it by the Ombudsman, by Parliament, by the Commission and even sometimes by the Council. We have found also some uncertainty among the citizens about the Charter's scope as a solemnly proclaimed instrument. For the courts, the Charter is already an important source of reference alongside the ECHR and the constitutional traditions of the Member States. Yet the national constitutional tradition referred to is already broad and, in a Union of 25 plus Member States, it will become improbably vague. Therefore, we conclude that we must incorporate the Charter firmly within the Treaties, so that what is at present an important source of reference will become a central source.Commission Vitorino and his working group in the Convention are considering the technical and semantic niceties that will be involved in incorporation and I look forward to hearing from him how successful the efforts of his working group are proving. This parliamentary resolution refreshes the political story of the Charter. It says why incorporation in the treaties is important and why it should become mandatory upon the Union and upon the Member States, when and, in so far as, they put into effect European law and policy. It also says why the Charter will become an important building block of the further development of the concept of European citizenship.As we enlarge, the Charter succeeds in spelling out for all concerned why fundamental rights are so salient to bringing Europe closer to the citizen. It proposes that we establish for ourselves our fundamental rights regime at the centre of the integration process so that it will stand as a jewel in the crown of our future constitution. I commend the report to Parliament.(Applause)
Mr President, despite the tragic events of 11 September, the tourism industry is alive and well. In fact, it is even enjoying a phase of permanent expansion at European and global level. As an economic sector, the tourism industry accounts for 5% of jobs in the European Union. The lion’s share of the activities and of employment is generated by some 2 million small and medium-sized businesses, together making up some 8 million people. Furthermore, this employment is spread across different service sectors, such as transport and the hotel trade.Small and medium-sized businesses are therefore clearly the driving force behind, and platform for, European tourism. This is why the proposed actions must be coupled with actions in the framework of the multi-annual programme for small and medium-sized businesses. To the question whether Community tourism policy should be developed for the tourism industry, the answer remains negative, at least for the time being. This does not detract from the fact that tourism policy must be coordinated more effectively and better managed. Tourism policy often gives a fragmented and chaotic impression. This is why actions in the field of harmonisation of information, the establishment of harmonised labels and networking must be strongly encouraged. In addition, the Commission’s initiative to establish an annual, European tourism forum at which the sector itself can set its priorities, receives our full support. In short, closer cooperation between all parties involved in order to make tourism more competitive and sustainable, appears to be a priority.
Madam President, Commissioner, I must say that I have not, unfortunately, read either the book No Logo or the special edition of The Economist entitled Pro Logo in The Economist. Clearly, however, we have embarked upon a very interesting discussion of trade marks and their significance in terms of dividing up world markets. Those of us who want to see a form of globalisation that is of benefit to all parties look forward to an international exhaustion of trade mark rights in accordance with the original Mayer report. The same applies if one is in favour of an effective competition policy, as mentioned by the rapporteur, for European exhaustion as it is at present enables markets to be divided up, providing benefits to manufacturers but not to consumers.Different studies can produce different results. The Commission takes a relatively negative view of international exhaustion in its study. On the other hand, we also have the experience referred to by the previous speaker whereby there are quite a few countries in which goods became more expensive after Community exhaustion had been introduced, for example Germany, Sweden and Great Britain. I am also sorry that this matter could not have been taken further during the Swedish Presidency which, I know, accorded it a high priority.I therefore hope that we shall now, in fact, produce a report on this subject. I also hope that the Commissioner can tell us what opportunities there are for addressing the issue in the context of the WTO in which a new round of talks is about to start.I also think it is important not to confuse this issue with that of pirate manufacturing, which is a completely different matter. There are new ways of checking the authenticity of goods by means of genuine and detailed identification, facilitating a completely new form of supervision. I therefore hope that the Commission is able to support the endeavours representing the main approach taken by Parliament today, as well as by the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party.
Thank you, Mr President. I should also like to congratulate Mr Casaca on behalf of my group. I share his relentless ambition to improve agricultural controls. If this policy is already controversial, and European agricultural policy is controversial, then we must in any event ensure that the money is well spent.What is the essence of the Commission's proposal? It aims to reduce the number of controls, but to improve them at the same time. We hope that the latter is the case, but everything is yet to be proven, of course. We will be closely monitoring this process, something that I support. The proof will be in the pudding. You will be given the benefit of the doubt, but I hope that your premises are indeed genuine.Something which Parliament has always asked for are margins of error for the individual sectors of the budget, and this also applies to the agricultural budget.How great is the margin of error in the dairy sector, for example? How much is it in the cereal sector, or the tobacco sector?The big question is whether you are able to supply these figures by means of this other system, because based on the Commission's new system of accounting, we expect that these figures will be available in due course. The Court of Auditors has said that it will not be able to do this. We would therefore ask the Commission to indicate, more or less on an annual basis, what the estimated margin of error and the estimated improvement will be. This will enable us to assess improvements in the Commission’s control procedures.One subject that has not been touched upon, not even in the Commission proposal, is that we have noticed an increasing emphasis on rural policy in Commissioner Fischler's proposals. Funding for rural policy is subject to good agricultural practices, which is excellent, and we must incorporate the environment and similar issues in this.However, what exactly are good agricultural practices? My guess is that good agricultural practices in Sweden may on the whole be different from good agricultural practices in the Netherlands, or Portugal, or Greece, or wherever. This is the essence. What is considered normal in one country is still not normal in another country.My final comment concerns Amendment No 10 pertaining to the publication of all data on the various destinations of agricultural funds.I agree with this in principle, but as far as I know, this does not apply to any of the other subsections of the budget. This is why we will be keeping our powder dry for the time being and will not be voting for this amendment at this stage.
Mr President, Commissioner Fischler, I will not repeat what my fellow Member, Mr Lavarra has already said – because I fully agree with his report on olive oil – but I wanted to say a few things about the question of tobacco. I also wanted to point out to the Commissioner that not only is there a problem concerning the depressed areas of the Mediterranean, a problem regarding monoculture where it is difficult to recover and convert the land, but also and above all a problem of social cohesion, in addition to the problem of ancillary activities and consequently the loss of thousands of jobs which endangers precisely the social stability of this reality. Therefore, while the issue of agriculture – in particular the CAP issue – also must be considered from a political viewpoint – just as we want Europe to do with respect to all the decisive issues for its development – it must be said that we have to make an effort, Commissioner, more of an effort to salvage something with regard to Mediterranean crops, since too much is done in favour of mainland agriculture, for France and Germany. It is a problem. No one says it, perhaps no one is brave enough, but someone has to say it and so I am defending Mediterranean crops; the health-conscious approach which is being propounded here is totally hypocritical: if we no longer use Kentucky tobacco, which is a healthy leaf, we will go and get our tobacco from Turkey, where the leaves are not healthy because they are contaminated by pesticides. As a consequence, citizens’ health will be put at risk and the States will not ban smoking, as they will continue to receive excise duties.
Madam President, I would like to join Mrs Patrie in warmly thanking our rapporteur, Mr Liese, for all his efforts to find a consensus. We are dealing with a particularly important directive here. It may contribute to improving clinical research in Europe and hence the welfare of millions of sick people. The sector is sensitive. It is a matter of scientific progress, but also ethics and morals: in short, value judgments.Since the first reading, Parliament has concentrated on the protection of people incapable of giving informed consent to these clinical trials: children and adults with a mental handicap. These groups must remain within the scope of the directive. Excluding them would mean obstructing research into conditions specifically affecting them. In some cases scientific and experimental research is their only hope.Besides, we know that empirically dividing the adult dose to treat children has already led to tragedy in the past. Then there is the opposite extreme, children not treated because, although the specific medicine to cure them exists, it has not been tested for them.So we want these groups to benefit from advances in research, while laying down conditions for these trials which are as severe and strict as possible. That is the aim of Amendments Nos 36 and 37 in particular: full and objective information, adapted to children – a point I consider very important; informed written consent from parents or legal representatives; exclusion of any financial advantage; control of protocol by ethics committees. In these amendments we also refer, not once but twice, to the fact that the interests of the patient are always more important than those of science and society. Children and disabled people are fragile people who need maximum protection. But there must be no ban: these patients must not be shut out beyond the gates of hope research represents for them, sometimes the last thread still linking them to life.One more word, on another point I consider highly important, I mean Amendment No 30 which concerns non-commercial clinical trials. It is crucial that the directive take account of this academic research. Nor must it be penalised. It is especially beneficial to the patients concerned. I am particularly thinking of cancer research, but there are many others.
Mr President, Commissioner, the resolution being tabled in this House today on the situation in Central America is timely given the recent visit of a delegation from the Central American Parliament to Brussels. It is timely for three important reasons that affect this special American region, not to mention the importance and political appropriateness of strengthening the dialogue between the European Parliament and the Central American Parliament.The three reasons are as follows: firstly, because it promotes the process of the consolidation of democracy and the deepening of the demand for human rights to be respected, particularly in relation to indigenous populations. Secondly, because it coincides with the tenth Latin American Summit, which will take place shortly in Panama, and which will deal with commitments to children and young people on the basis of justice and equality in the new millennium. Thirdly, because it also coincides with the current philosophy of the European Commission in favour of redirecting Union external action towards the countries of Latin America with the potential impact that this may have. In this regard, we hope and trust that the necessary amounts will be allocated to provide impetus for the process of regional integration in Central America, where dialogue is becoming necessary and essential as a permanent political exercise.We are therefore pleased with this political declaration by our Parliament in relation to the Central American Parliament, because it recognises the role that this institution plays in the process of integrating the countries of this area, situated between the north and south of America.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market. – Mr President, on behalf of the Legal Affairs Committee I would like to address the same report as Mr Ford has addressed. On the face of it this proposal would seem to be about taxation of non-EU businesses, but, of course, what it should be about is how we encourage and nurture Europe's e-economy, which is a very fragile flower. In this sense, I welcome the Commission's brave attempt to find a way to close the competitive gap that clearly exists between EU and non-EU e-business. But what we have to ask, and what our committee asked, was: is this the right way to do it? Our opinion was very clearly that it is not.I was always told that one of the first rules or principles of a legislator should be: do not make law you cannot enforce. This was our committee's major concern. It may not be enough to rely on the good will of enterprises outside our reach. The good guys will comply, the bad ones will still be bad, and consumers may well use them in their search for a good deal.What else could we be doing here? There is much talk about setting up business models for e-commerce regulation, but that is a wider issue and should be dealt with in a much more transparent way. There are underlying assumptions in this proposal about the place of taxation which could store up problems for the future in an international context. We may have something to learn from America, where they have, of course, imposed a moratorium on such e-tax. In short, the aim of this proposal is correct but the method is misconceived and if we really want to encourage Europe's e-economy, a right signal would be zero rate VAT for our own e-business rather than trying to impose our problems on others.
Mr President, we have talked about China many times in this House, and it is excellent that there is now an extensive and overarching report on the EU’s cooperation strategy for the region. I want to congratulate Mr Graça Moura on a very sound report. It is a really good piece of work.China is a huge country of growing importance in the world. The consequences of the economic, social and political transformations faced by the country are unforeseeable. In connection with China’s membership of the WTO – supported by the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party – there will be many opportunities for the EU and China to deepen their cooperation. Economically, socially, culturally and politically, we must have an extensive dialogue with China. WTO membership will make demands when it comes to software piracy, environmental issues, trade unions etc, and we can perhaps be of help.It will be no surprise to you, Mr President, that the  Group is very concerned about the issue of human rights. We genuinely want to appeal to the Commission to increase the pressure on China where these issues are concerned. Commentators throughout the world are agreed that the human rights situation is deteriorating overall. It seems as if China, just like Russia in the case of Chechnya, is using the fight against terrorism as an alibi in order to commit atrocities against minorities. The ability to practise one’s religion freely in China is strictly limited. Catholics report systematic persecution, and mosques are burned down. In Tibet, there is severe oppression of the Tibetan people, especially of monks.We are also anxious about the torture and persecution of democracy campaigners, trade union activists and dissidents, and the attempt to limit freedom of expression on the Internet is of course unacceptable. The daily arrests, torturing and systematic persecution of Falun Gong practitioners is also very worrying. Even though the Chinese regime appears resolved to break this movement, it will not succeed, and a dialogue must therefore be brought about on this issue.China also executes more people than all other countries put together and, in this area, we must exert pressure in order to bring about a moratorium. These issues must be given the highest priority in our cooperative relations with China. We had hoped that there might not perhaps have been any 2008 Olympic Games in China but, now that these are in fact to take place, we must use them as a means of exerting pressure.I have stood on this platform many times and talked about human rights in China, and many telephone calls have been received from the Chinese Embassy. That will continue. As long as there are Liberals in this House, we shall stand up for human rights in China.
Mr President, thesupports the rigorous and demanding report by Mr Pomés Ruiz. It lays out and highlights both the achievements and the shortcomings of the Member States in the way the stability and convergence programmes are applied, which, as I mentioned in my previous intervention on the Katiforis report, have brought satisfactory results for the whole of the European economy.However, this current satisfactory situation must not mask a series of shortcomings and must lead to the implementation of the series of recommendations which the rapporteur, Mr Pomés Ruiz, correctly makes in his report.He mentioned one of these recommendations in his speech: the need to take advantage of the current favourable situation, the healthy state of public finances – which on the other hand are disciplined by the stability and convergence programmes – in order to reduce the deficit, and possibly remove it completely, as well as to reduce debt levels, even to below the limits set in the convergence programmes. This would mean that we could make far-reaching tax reforms which would contribute to a more favourable environment for our economy, for business initiative, to freeing up resources and promoting them by fiscal means in an area which is one of our priority commitments: to be up-to-date and competitive at the most advanced levels of the information society and in the application of new technologies.I would like to conclude by arguing – and I believe this is one of the conclusions we must draw from Mr Pomés Ruiz’s report – for greater coordination between the Member States with regard to the implementation of these programmes. I would therefore like to insist once again on the need for a genuine direction for economic and monetary policy at European Union level.
Mr President, Socrates II has now arrived, even though it cost a certain amount of effort. Negotiating with the Council into the early hours of the morning is not always too exciting, but it was worth it this time. Throughout the process, Mrs Pack has done a lot of good work, and I want to take the opportunity to thank her, just as I want to thank Commissioner Reding for her collaboration.We have obtained a good Socrates programme containing some sensible initiatives which take account of the fact that the EU is on the brink of enlargement. As a Dane, I cannot help but comment, in particular, on the Grundtvig initiative. In Denmark, we have had a distinguished tradition of lifelong learning since the nineteenth century, and it is precisely the poet, priest and co-author of the Danish constitution, N.F.S. Grundtvig, who stands out as one of the founders of the entire folk high school movement in Denmark, a movement which helped educate ordinary people at a time when this was unusual. The Danish folk high schools also play an important role in offering education to people of all ages. It is good that we have got ourselves a scheme designed to give a boost to lifelong learning.It is no secret that, when we insisted to the bitter end in Parliament that the Directive should include a review clause, this was in order to ensure that the programme would also be able to function properly following any enlargement of the European Union. Mr President, all I can do is warmly recommend people to vote in favour of this report. In fact, I cannot imagine anyone voting against it.
The explanatory statement sets out our justified concerns regarding this important issue, which affects the health of soldiers involved in operations in difficult areas. The local populations involved naturally have a vested interest in this, especially in relation to the necessary criteria for the social, economic and environmental reconstruction of the affected areas.In its entirety, therefore, the resolution is fair and I fully support it.However, as it stands, paragraph 6 goes too far, as it stands, in calling upon NATO member states to propose a moratorium, as the precautionary principle is included in the draft which urges NATO to consider other types of weapons until the results of the enquiry on depleted uranium are published.Since I am unable to support paragraph 6, I have therefore decided to abstain from voting on the whole text.
Mr President, I would like to start by congratulating Mr Bösch: my group believes that, with him, this report is in capable hands. Despite this, we have still tabled a few amendments to his report. We remain adamant about the fact that this Parliament is not a court of law and that it does not need to pass judgment on certain cases. We must first wait and see what those reports bring and then judge whether the Commission has acquitted itself of its task expertly. That is why the jury is still out on the butter fraud, a case which is indeed probably very extensive, on the flax fraud in Spain and possibly in other countries too, on New Zealand butter and on Stockholm. We will wait for all the reports and will study the Commission’s behaviour in those situations, before passing judgment.We endorse Mr Bösch’s observations with regard to OLAF’s role. The Director will need to avail himself of his rights and will, as far as we are concerned, be backed by Parliament. Independence is a great good. We also endorse the remarks about the European Public Prosecutor, although I must admit that a minority in my group feels differently about this. We believe that it is necessary, with a view to protecting financial interests, that the Commission table proposals along these lines as soon as possible, and we have quoted, in an amendment, 1 June 2001 as the ultimate deadline in this connection. Closer cooperation is obviously needed between the Commission, the Member States and the European and national courts of auditors. It is probably wise – and we have tabled an amendment to this effect as well – if the Commission were first to define what exactly is considered to be fraud and what is an irregularity. That discrepancy will need to be done away with. We can support Mr Bösch’s late amendment on Switzerland. Switzerland is a key country in Europe when it comes to combating fraud, and we do well to bear this in mind. It is unfortunate that the Swiss population feels so lukewarm about Europe, a fact which we will also need to take into consideration.On a final note, we do not believe that Parliament should have unlimited access to all documents from OLAF. The nature of OLAF’s work is such that certain aspects must remain confidential and perhaps even secret.
Mr President, whenever we speak, just about anywhere in our own countries, particularly over the past five years, there is one topic that is always particularly sensitive, which is: how are the finances being managed? Then the general opinion on Brussels is not all that great. This is why it was very much to be welcomed that the Prodi Commission declared that from now on, there would be zero tolerance across the board. We were therefore very shocked to hear the claims made in connection with Eurostat a few months ago. It has to be said that the Commission was quick to react when the news broke, but the big question is: what did the Commission know before that point? In my view, there are clear indications that the Commission, in the years leading up to May 2003, could have had some knowledge of what was happening at Eurostat. The Commission failed to take any action in the light of that information. Although it may talk about the need to improve information, we were told at regular intervals that an enquiry had begun at Eurostat. The big question is: why did the alarm bells not go off sooner in the Commission?When I hear the Commission speak, the main point it is driving home is that it is proud of the results achieved. In fact, the Court of Auditors stated yesterday that there are signs of improvement, and the Commission can be proud of this, with good reason. However, as for the aspects that went clearly wrong, the Commission washes its hands of them. The fault lies with OLAF, or the director-general, or whoever, but not with the Commission. That is wrong. I can only refer to an English politician, maybe a statesman – Mr Kinnock will undoubtedly know him – Lord Carrington. He knew nothing of the Falklands war, he was not sufficiently informed and despite this, he assumed the political responsibility for it. That is a very honourable position in my view. In the political culture from which I come, a minister, a secretary of state or a councillor is always responsible, and that should also be the case for a Commissioner and for the Commission. That is an issue on which we in the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party will be focusing.
Mr President, firstly I would like to thank the rapporteur for an excellent report. The European Anti-fraud Office (OLAF) was set up under great pressure from Parliament to replace the former UCLAF. Its task obviously has to be clarified, but at the same time we must ensure that the European Union does not start to become a Community reminiscent of a police state. At this stage our group does not support point 39, which goes too far in its outline of OLAF’s future role. We still wish to keep our options open, and for that reason we have drafted Amendment No 8. This gives attention to the following: the competence of the OLAF Supervisory Committee in relation to the Director’s discretionary powers, the matter of where the secretariat is to be physically located, and the rights of the people whose actions OLAF is investigating. We should remember that it would be a very alarming situation if OLAF were to investigate an unfounded report.As points 1 and 2 imply that poor administration and fraud are due to the fact that the same Commissioner is responsible for both the budget and financial control, we cannot accept this conclusion, which oversimplifies the matter. At the same time we do not wish to belittle the determination and firmness with which the Commission has pushed for administrative reforms.
The  Group voted against in the final vote on the Langen report, because its members are not convinced that a framework directive on services of general interest (SGI) is a good idea. At least we want to wait for the Commission's reflections on the desirability and feasibility of a framework directive on SGIs before we insist on such a proposal.Another reason for our vote against is the ambiguous wordings on the need to stick to the Lisbon agenda. We found that the text was too watered down (for example in the votes pertaining to par. 33).Liberals also find that the report, through amendments both in committee and in plenary, had become too long, inconsistent and incoherent and that it therefore, unfortunately, no longer presented any added value to the debate on SGIs.
Mr President, I too should like to start by thanking the rapporteurs, particularly Mr Costa Neves. It is, in my experience, the first time that the rapporteur has not tampered with the financial perspectives. I welcome this, especially since we have ended up with a budget surplus of some EUR 11 billion.I should like to make some observations concerning the different headings. I will start with the first heading. I am in favour of the reserve for foot-and-mouth disease. I do not know what other disasters could be heading in our direction, but I believe that the end is not yet in sight. I repeat once again, but I have said it so often: in my opinion, the Commission should not stop thinking about possible alternative ways of funding the fight against crises of this type. We can look into insurance systems. We can put all kinds of restrictions in place, but I do not think that we can rely on the fact that, in the years to come, there will be an annual surplus of one to two billion in the agricultural budget.I should particularly like to recommend the amendments on further foot and mouth research, tabled by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, to the Council of Ministers. Can we develop marker vaccines, or new testing methods? Can we examine whether a vaccinated animal is still infectious?With regard to heading 2, I endorse the gist of the rapporteur’s policy designed to achieve an improved expenditure and commitment policy. I am thus in favour of the amendments which he has tabled in this connection, with only one exception: the increase in payment appropriations is rather extreme in my opinion. Along with the Commission, I fail to see how this can be spent in a reasonable manner. Consequently, I will in this connection vote differently from the way in which many of you will probably vote.Concerning the proposals to use the flexibility instrument in order to restructure the fishing fleet in Spain and Portugal, I am anxiously awaiting the Commission’s proposals.On a final note, I think we ought to bolster Eastern Europe. The SAPARD payment periods must be extended to 2003. The fact that the payment bodies have not yet been approved should not put those countries at a disadvantage.
Mr President, the Commissioner has very helpfully outlined the major challenges that enlargement will bring – challenges such as the problems of Kaliningrad, of the Beneš Decrees, of Cyprus; and he has talked a lot about the cost of enlargement. I am, however, very pleased that the President-in-Office drew attention to the cost of non-enlargement, which is by far the greater. It may well be true, as the President-in-Office said, that for us these countries will have waited a 'mere' 15 years to join the Union. To them, however, those 15 years will seem more than half as long again as the decade that Spain waited to come into our Union. I believe it is incumbent upon us to do all we can to speed up the process of enlargement. The first step in that process is in the hands of the Presidency this week as the Council meets in Barcelona.President, you have emphasised that we have a responsibility for reuniting our divided continent. We must welcome those who wish to join us as soon as they are ready. But it is not primarily a budgetary question: there are tremendous economic benefits to be gained, and that is where Barcelona comes in; for we need to have the courage to undertake ourselves the difficult economic reforms which we rightly expect of the applicant states. This means, in Barcelona, agreeing important economic reforms, finding the way towards reform of the common agricultural policy, and moving towards reforms of our institutions.The Heads of State and Government must not fudge the opportunity of real economic reform in Barcelona. We must open up the markets for gas and electricity, both wholesale and domestic, by 2005 at the latest. We must recommit ourselves to the package of legislative measures in the financial services action plan, unblocking discussions in the Council. We must also see progress on public procurement and a European patent.If we are to fulfil our objective of staying within the financial perspectives, enlargement must also mean reform of the common agricultural policy. The over-production and waste which characterise the CAP and the worrying consequences for public health of intensive farming methods must be dealt with as we move towards a modern rural development policy, breaking the link with production and creating an environmentally sustainable policy providing aid to our farmers.The prospect of enlargement also requires us to make a success of the Convention. Our institutions and our decision-making procedures are like a Trabant, when what we need is a Mercedes. We need to design a constitutional settlement for the Union of the 21st century which goes beyond Nice, which is based on common rights and values, which addresses the legitimate concerns of our citizens, combining accountability, democracy and efficiency. Here, above all, what is called for is a responsible approach from our Member States. It is not helpful for financial discipline if the Italian Finance Minister questions the finances of enlargement. It is damaging, when a Community of 25 or 27 will need a strong Executive in the Commission, if the Head of Government of one of our large Member States accuses the Commission of a bias against his country, of wanting to smash the culture of one of his industrial producers, and of singling out his country.If we are to insist on a responsible approach from the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, then we need a more responsible approach ourselves. I hope that as we move towards the Danish Presidency later this year and the historic decisions on enlargement, we will see a responsible, united and purposeful Western Europe welcoming these new democracies into the democratic fold.(Applause)
President, this Friday, 5 December 2003, the parliamentary members of the Convention will meet up again to consider the progress of the Intergovernmental Conference, to speak with Mr Frattini and Mr Giscard d’Estaing, and to make joint proposals to the IGC.The main thrust of our deliberations will be to support the work of the Italian presidency in defending the work of the Convention, but I fully agree with Mr Hänsch that we will fight the notion of rendezvous clauses on key elements of the package. Procrastination will not make tricky decisions simpler to solve: the time to act decisively is now. Nor will we approve proposals to inflate the size and distort the shape of the Commission - or indeed this Parliament - to avoid concessions to the self-esteem of Member States. Such ploys do not contribute to the efficiency and effectiveness of those authorities, and to ignore the settled will of this Parliament is certain to jeopardise the prospects of the new settlement being brought into force. It will sour the political atmosphere and wound the democratic legitimacy of the Union.The Presidents of the Council and of the Commission should be absolutely clear that the IGC cannot take our consent for granted.(Applause)
Mr President, I would like to congratulate Mrs Hermange on an excellent report. I would also like to congratulate her for making it available in braille and through sign language interpreters. This is such a good report because of the cross-party cooperation, similar to the cross-party cooperation there was on the article concerning anti-discrimination, and because of the input from the disabled people's organisations themselves. We had 97 amendments in committee, and we have only five for this plenary session. That demonstrates how we have all worked together and particularly that Mrs Hermange has listened to the points that have been put to her and incorporated them into this report.I hope also that this report will act as a springboard for the year 2003, the Year of Disabled Citizens, but hopefully we can bring forward the disability directive that Mr Howitt has just referred to within that year, so as to actually make a commitment to a positive disability directive.This report is about breaking down barriers for disabled people, to get rid of the prejudices that disabled people face in their daily lives across the European Union. That is what we are aiming to achieve. It is disgraceful that we need this report, that disabled people are not treated like other people. We must make sure that disabled people are mainstreamed, that they are not sidelined, that they are taken into account in all sectors – in the information society, in public procurement, in employment. As Mr Mantovani said, the level of unemployment is three times higher for disabled people. Let us hope that this report, together with the employment directive, will address that issue. We must look at all the issues.I would like to conclude by saying again to Mrs Hermange that she has produced an excellent report but one that we must make sure that we put into practice. Fine words are one thing, making sure that in practice disabled people are treated exactly the same as everyone else is another.
Mr President, the Commission’s proposals for supplementary and amending budgets 1, 2 and 3 have been dealt with in Parliament unusually quickly and very flexibly. It shows that Parliament and its Committee on Budgets show real responsibility for the European Union economy and, in addition, real responsibility for the development of different policies and adjusting promptly to prevailing circumstances.Budgets 1 and 3 are mainly technical; they concern a surplus and certain computer-related purchases. The most interesting additional budget is number 4 which channels significant sums in respect of reconstruction and humanitarian aid to the Balkans – Kosovo and Macedonia – and aid to Turkey. Putting this fund together was a significant challenge to EU credibility and the fact that they were dealt with by the Committee on Budgets leading to amendments being made shows just how great that responsibility is.I would particularly like to stress that when reconstruction in Kosovo gets under way, the procedure must be simple and clear, with regard also to the administration of funds and the share of responsibility. For this reason, the agency responsible for reconstruction should not be split up into two separate areas, but must be in one place, and it should be independent with sufficient authority to take decisions. Otherwise, the management of funds will be time-consuming and will lead to a situation in which the impact of aid is weakened. For this reason, when tomorrow we debate and decide on this issue, the Agency for Reconstruction should be set up in Pristina, and it should on no account be associated with the agency that monitors the Stability Pact at Thessaloniki.On other matters I would say that the questions raised by Mr Fabra Vallés on arrangements regarding appointments can surely be dealt with at the next debate on the budget.
Mr President, in February 1787, a previous convention met in Philadelphia. Several of the American States were opposed to calling the thing in the first place and several others were determined to restrict its mandate and to dilute its effect. The convention's formal brief was extremely restrictive and it was not itself to decide but only propose. Yet from that experiment flowered the American Constitution and the post-colonial parliamentary democracy that we still recognise today.Such a similar result will only come out of this European Convention, if we as a Parliament are bold, well-organised and persuasive. Beneath the Presidency of our European George Washington, we must draft a clear set of proposals and, while accepting the questions set for us by Laeken, we must retain the capacity to ask ourselves some questions. Let us be truly creative for Europe.
Mr President, at this moment in time, I find it difficult to criticise the attitude which the Commission or Member States have adopted since the initial foot-and-mouth outbreak in the United Kingdom. I think they have all been alert and that that all possible precautionary measures were taken. Nevertheless, I wonder whether that was enough. I paid a visit to the United States not so long ago. Each time I enter that country, I am always struck by the fact that I have to state whether I have been on a farm over the previous three weeks and whether I am bringing foodstuffs with me. All this to check whether any contagious diseases are being imported into the United States. This does not happen in Europe. Would this not be the right time to ask ourselves whether this is not a necessary course of action here too? With all those jumbo jets arriving at our airports every day, the risk of infection from wherever in the world is enormous.The debate whether or not to vaccinate is once again upon us. Could the Commission spell out the economic implications of vaccinating and what benefits non-vaccination brings? It is true that we have had no problems for the past nine years, but I think that the public must be convinced of the need for this policy. We must know how much it will cost.This Parliament has increased the budget line for “SOS countryside” over the past six years. Last year, the Commission refused to implement this budget line. It pays for a telephone line which can be used by any farmer across the European Union. Why does the Commission not implement this budget line and why is there an inclination to shelve it again this year? This is about a clear-cut wish from Parliament and I think that it is extremely well-timed.
Madam President, I too would like to express my appreciation of the Swedish presidency, of the way it has developed the institutional plan for the Union and, above all, of its contribution to the preparations for enlargement. I feel that, for the first time, many Europeans are aware that there will be representatives from 25 European countries in this House in just three years time. However, we are also aware of the problems arising not just from the pause brought about by the Irish referendum but also from the increasing difficulty of involving the European citizens in planning the future Europe.My opinion is simple: we must give fresh impetus to the cooperation between Parliament and the Commission. The Commission must – and here I am expressing, once again, my total confidence in President Prodi and the Commissioners – demonstrate that it can handle its responsibilities and is capable of working towards a shared vision. Parliament must take greater pride in being the representative of a democratic institution which will soon include half a billion people, at precisely a time when such a large proportion of the public is critical of globalisation. We are the primary example of a supranational power which is still growing, and this, Madam President, must be stressed: this is Europe's contribution to the future of world government.I would also like to express my appreciation of the determination with which the Swedish presidency has upheld Europe's position on the environment and emphasised the key points of the Kyoto agreements, not just in terms of rules but also in terms of triggering off a new debate within the scientific community on research, technological innovation and industrial competition, placing Europe's position in the context – as Commissioner Wallström said – of the European strategy for sustainable development.Finally – albeit a day early – I would like to express my best wishes to the Belgian presidency and say that I have every confidence in the presidency of a founding country of Europe. The Belgian presidency will enable us to contribute to that process which will give us a Europe of 25 countries in just three years, but will also bring us a more democratic Europe which is tangibly closer to the principle of subsidiarity, Madam President.Many Europeans, including those who voted against the motion in the Irish referendum, are calling for us to reduce the excessive amount of regulations. Basically, they are demanding that Europe deal more effectively with its strategic priorities and stop wasting so much time on matters of minor importance.
Mr President, Commissioner, I would first like to thank Mrs Rodríguez Ramos and Mr Fiori for the enormous amount of work they have put into both these reports. I do not have much to add when it comes to Mrs Rodríguez Ramos’ report, but I have a few comments on Mr Fiori’s.I think it is important that we think about whether we should retain agricultural policy or develop it. We have to realise that improved communications, both physical and electronic, are making us increasingly dependent on the world around us. This makes it impossible for us in the EU to isolate ourselves and conduct a completely separate agricultural policy. We have to take into account what is going on in the world around us.The negotiations of the World Trade Organisation are becoming increasingly important and are setting the standard for what we do. This is emphasised by the fact that the countries of central Eastern Europe will soon be included in the EU. An enlarged EU will in fact be the largest player on the global food market. Therefore, we must also take on the role of the most important player when it comes to pushing development forward. Now that the US has increased its agricultural subsidies, the EU must seek to be the driving force behind further opening up the global market, involving the developing countries in that market and thus making it work better. This would also create an opportunity for the developing countries to demonstrate, through their growth, that they are a purchasing force on the global market due to their having an enormous need for food.Mr President, I believe it is important that we think this through both ahead of the interim report and ahead of a new agricultural policy after 2006. Being aware that a functioning global market is much more important for the farmers of Europe may be a much greater guarantee of their obtaining a reasonable income than an increasingly fragile political support system which we no longer particularly agree that we wish to develop.
Mr President, Commissioner, first of all, I should like to congratulate Freddy Blak on an exceptionally good report and at the same time thank him for our fruitful cooperation during this process. In the discharge, Denmark was subject to a critical comment which is a scathing criticism of the way in which the Danish Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Fisheries handles export aid payments. It is quite extraordinary that, in Denmark, there are cases going right back to 1996. This means that Danish export businesses are severely hampered in their operations at the moment and that there is a considerable distortion of competition vis-à-vis other EU countries. This is far and away the harshest criticism ever levelled at Denmark, and in this case, mind you, it is the central authorities who have failed. I must therefore urge the Commission to ensure that the Danish rules on export aid are normalised as soon as possible.
I should like to thank the rapporteur, partly for the fact that he referred to the Belgian Presidency. I am proud that someone from my group, Rik Daems, thanks to his negotiating skills, managed to get this common position on paper at the time, which was certainly not an easy task. It is a very even-handed position, in my view. Mr Simpson too has already referred to it. There may still be other people out there who believe that the postal services should remain a national government monopoly. I am not one of them. There may be people who believe that public services should not be a topic of discussion. I am certainly not one of them either. The common position is somewhere in between. It takes account of the wishes of the customers, the people who use the postal services, which is what should be our priority, in my view. We must ensure that postal companies are able and obliged to carry out this task. We have received agreement from fifteen Member States and fifteen postal services. This is very important. This means that we will be able to modernise services of this kind very rapidly, and that we can ensure that they become first-rate businesses, if they are not so already. There are also people who want to go faster or slower than the common position, or those who want more grammes, etc. This is not wise, in my view. As Mr Simpson said before: if we now loosen the string, the entire package will unravel and collapse, which would be a bad outcome. We must prevent this happening at all costs. Our group will therefore adopt the three amendments tabled by the rapporteur, but not the others.The proposal that is now before us provides postal companies with the opportunity to become modern businesses within a realistic timeframe, by no later than 2009, with a clearly defined set of tasks and with transparent accounts, businesses that put the interests of their customers before their own and fulfil a social function at the same time. This role is, I believe, crucial in sparsely populated and remote areas and helps the weaker in our society. We also provide a directive in which each Member State and each postal service can acquit itself of this task. In my opinion, if we follow the rapporteur and if we manage – as I believe we shall – to obtain the endorsement of the Council and the Commission, we will have created something which is very valuable and in which we can take pride.
In view of the urgent need for, and importance of, an adequate judicial framework for this fast-developing field, as a member of the competent parliamentary Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, I have decided not to submit any amendments at second reading. The Council’s position largely accommodates the amendments tabled by Parliament at first reading. Although, in my opinion, more detail on some of the points relating to consumer protection would not have gone amiss, we should avoid any delay.Rapid developments in the sphere of electronic commerce are such that it will soon be necessary to carry out an evaluation of the directive. In this way, it can be tailored to new circumstances.
Will the Cotonou Agreement yield more results than its Lomé predecessors? The new cooperation agreement with the ACP countries has drawn on the experience gathered to date, and bears witness to new insights in the field of trade, good governance, aid and the role of civil organisations. There is naturally room for criticism but, in my view, Mr Rod is taking things too far in his comprehensive report. In his analysis, Europe is the devil personified while the ACP countries have been elevated to the status of saints. The disastrous, violent conflicts are caused by poverty, and poverty is caused by the rich West. Unfortunately, things are not as simple as that. It is unfair to claim that Cotonou will only lead to unbridled liberalism. However, the agreement does stress with good reason the importance of the participation of players other than the local government, such as NGOs and the private sector. Not only donors have to draw lessons, but also the developing countries themselves. It is therefore to be welcomed that Cotonou reminds the ACP countries of their own responsibilities. It is right that aid should be provided according to the achievements of the receiving countries. Success in the longer term does not only depend on us but also, and above all, on the partners’ own continuous efforts. Would Commissioner Nielsen agree with me on this?Administrative capacity is crucial if results are to be achieved. At least as important is preventing the abuse of power and human rights violations. I therefore consider the planned, broad dialogue to be at the heart of the Cotonou Agreement. It is vital that the EU and the ACP partners should not stop at good intentions. Europe must drastically reform its own development, trade and agricultural policy and the ACP countries must put all their efforts into democratisation, political stability and conflict prevention so as to allow their countries to develop socially and to make them fully-fledged trading partners.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market. – I should like to congratulate the rapporteur. We are dealing here with a long-overdue overhaul of a number of directives relating to rights of residents of the non-economically active. My starting-point, as was the rapporteur's, is that we should give European Union citizenship real meaning. The Treaty statement that every citizen should have the right to move and reside freely within the territory of Member States and the reality are still far apart.I draw on the experience of a number of language students from other Member States in my own constituency. They received a standard letter from our local social security office asking them to attend for a two-hour interview and to bring with them as many items as possible on a non-exhaustive list of about twenty documents such as a passport, bank statements, or household bills to 'establish their identity'. When I enquired further about this I was told that it was not an EU matter, because the same letter would be sent to UK residents. In what circumstances I cannot imagine. And, the two hour time-scale, even more ludicrously, was supposed to save them from a car parking fine in the local car-park!I would not want to see any citizens treated in the same way as these students. The history of the directives that deal with the rights of residence of the non-economically active is an unhappy one: non-implementation, infringement proceedings, a patchwork of different and burdensome requirements. You can move a sack of potatoes around Europe more easily than a citizen can move. If we are to appeal to our citizens and the basic right of free movement is to be real, then simple, fast codification of this area of Community law is long overdue. Then, and only then, will the Treaty statement on European Union citizenship become a reality instead of mere words.
Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. I would just like to mention three points. It is a good thing that primary education is included in it, but I would also like to argue on behalf of older people and people who live in remote areas. We must not neglect these people. They will benefit from lifelong learning, and they can pass on their knowledge and experience to subsequent generations.The second point is the importance of encouraging twinning between schools. There are great differences – this has already been mentioned – between the various regions within Europe in terms of the level of knowledge and the use of IT in education, and that makes it difficult for schools to work together. I would like once more to emphatically urge that we map out the current situation and also involve candidate Member States in this, because only then will we be able to achieve a more targeted approach for schools that are lagging behind, and this will hugely increase the range of options available.My third point is that it is not only about quantity but also about quality. I expect the private sector, which created the eLearning Industry Group working party, to play a major role. Collaboration between the private and public sectors is, in my opinion, a very good thing. It will enable us to become the most dynamic knowledge economy in the world, and that is what we are aiming for.
Mr President, employment policy is a national concern, and it shall remain so. We in the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party find therefore, that, with the employment package, a good solution has been found to the problem of how we combine the principle of subsidiarity with a desire to ensure that employment policy is properly coordinated. The Member States’ reports on how they are complying with the guidelines do not simply explain how the various countries are managing individually and in relation to the others but are also a source of mutual inspiration through which countries can learn about each other’s successes. However, precisely how employment policy is put into practice is entirely a matter for the individual Member States. A good deal of policymaking in the areas of employment and the labour market belongs at local level.What is more, success in employment policy is crucial to sound development in the public finances, and it is reasonable to see the employment package and macroeconomic cooperation in an EU context. The Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party is not, however, in favour of the employment guidelines’ containing demands that the various countries organise their employment initiatives in accordance with a specific template and in terms of heavy-handed numerical objectives. The individual countries themselves should decide upon the priorities for their employment policies and, in this context, we in the Group of the Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party feel free to take pleasure in the fact that a liberal employment policy which is particularly concerned with securing the correct incentives in taxation and social policy has been proceeded with in most Member States in recent years.In the EU countries, cooperation between parties in the labour market – in other words, the social dialogue – follows very different models characterised by different traditions and cultures. This process is to be respected. And it must also be ensured that the dialogue between governments and the social partners in the labour market does not overshadow the democratic process in the national parliaments and the EU Parliament.I want finally to say that, in its report on employment, the Commission has made recommendations to the individual countries. That is not unproblematic, and it is very important that the Commission should openly describe the assumptions on which it is making its recommendations.
Madam President, my motion is that we hold a vote on this matter. The committee which I have the honour to chair examined the STOA report. We know quite clearly what the position of the different Members of the House is on this, and the Conference of Presidents has quite rightly presented proposals to us.There is only one question which arises: whether we should look at one particular system which might be an invasion of privacy, or at all potential systems that might be an invasion of privacy. There are clear amendments on our order paper today which deal with that point. I move that we now hold a vote on this matter.
To start with, I agree with the previous speaker’s last sentence. I do not need to repeat that ports are important. In my view, the Commission proposal helps us to enhance the efficiency of ports. Like a few of my fellow MEPs, however, I have noticed one shortcoming: there are no proposals on state aid and transparency. It would be best, and I have tabled an amendment to that effect, if these new proposals were to come from the Commission and not from the text which we as Parliament are now drafting. Commissioner, I should like to ask you if you would be able to tell us more about possible plans in that direction during this debate. In any event, I hope that my fellow MEPs will support this amendment and that we will therefore ask the Commission to submit new proposals concerning those two points.For the rest, I back the Commission proposal. We must increase competition at ports. This must also include maritime access, not only for technical-nautical services, but also for the handling of cargo and passengers. We should therefore not dispose of the handling of cargo.I think that pilotage can also be retained in the directive. As you rightly stated, it forms a significant link in the life of most ports. However, if we prescribe a few requirements, impose a number of conditions in the social field, and give due consideration to economic aspects, the environment and public services, as is the case in the directive and in my amendment, we will have more guarantees than if we simply fall back on the Treaty. For I believe that that is the choice: either we include a special rule for ports in a directive, or we fall back on the Treaty and simply apply to pilotage the general rules of the Treaty which provide for the free movement of services. I think it would be preferable to adopt the Commission proposal in this respect.In any case, I am of the opinion that we as Parliament need to cooperate with the Commission constructively, possibly allow for a conciliation procedure with the Council, and ensure that we reinforce the operation of ports and competition in and among ports in a constructive manner to encourage the vital aspect of transport by water as much as possible.
Mr President, it is very regrettable that this common position, which has been put together with such care by the Council and which paid due respect to the Parliament's views at first reading, is now in the process of unravelling. I think we are going to lose a rather useful piece of legislation which would have put in place a necessary supervisory framework for one of the growth areas in financial services, namely the storage of cash on plastic cards and other forms of e-money.The concerns which have been expressed by the European Central Bank, which have largely, but perhaps not fully, been taken on board, are coming out in a way which is likely to damage the potential for this business to develop. The concerns, particularly about the waiver, are misguided precisely because it would be very limited: it would be limited to only EUR 150 on any particular card. Every issuer would be supervised by national authorities and we know that the potential for money-supply growth caused by this sort of issuance would be extremely slight given the sort of schemes which are already operating in a number of Member States: for example, on university campuses a student may be able to use this piece of plastic to buy something in a bar, or in a canteen, or in the university bookshop.The reality is that other Community central banks – notably the Swedish Riksbank, the Bank of England – do not have these concerns about money creation. If we look at the reality of the ECB's concerns over the last few years, we can see that there has not been a stable relationship between the money supply and the growth of nominal income. There has been a substantial variation in the velocity of circulation because of new developments within the financial services industry and this is merely another one of those. Therefore, in the years before the ECB took charge of euro-zone monetary policy, the Bundesbank itself was not able to respect the growth of its money supply targets.What we have here is an attempt, when we see that a particular theory of monetary control is not working and does not accord with reality, to squeeze that reality back into the theory, to the detriment of the innovatory capacity of the Member States and of their financial systems. That is very regrettable. There are a lot of safeguards that the Commission has put in here that the Council has carefully discussed and I very much hope that we will fully support the Council common position on this matter.
Mr President, Mr President-designate, ladies and gentlemen, this new chapter in our history requires us to be here today for this discussion on the crisis in transparency and the crisis in the functioning of the Commission. Mr President-designate, you have agreed to lead us out of that crisis, which is why you are here today to propose, and we are here to demand, institutional reform and the strengthening of European politics. Leaving aside the albeit serious crisis which initiated everything, this was the only possible outcome because, there is now a demand, for apparently opposing reasons, for greater attention to be paid both to the need for institutional reform and for more policies. I said for apparently opposing reasons because one of the subjects we are dealing with is the apparent bewilderment – I hope it is not lack of confidence – of the European citizens, as shown by the poor turnout in the June elections but, on the other hand, there is undoubtedly more being asked of Europe. The Kosovo crisis has certainly highlighted the original reasons for the creation of a united Europe. Europe as an instrument of strengthened European institutions, as an instrument to ensure peace even before ensuring prosperity, across the entire continent.This demand calls for commitments on enlargement and on strengthening the institutions which on the one hand, we must honour. However, on the other hand, for the Europe already in existence, for those countries of Europe which are already part of the Union, there is more being asked of Europe. The euro is a tool, an intermediate stage. It is a condition, a tool for bringing prosperity to everyone, so that we can move on to those policies which form the fundamental chapter we are about to open, the final goal, that is, more growth, more development, more employment. We must deal with the need for new transparency, new institutions and new politics. As for transparency – we have already said, Mr President – our group puts all its confidence in you, confidence which obviously depends on the results you and your Commission will achieve. This confidence obviously depends on each individual Commissioner’s ability to sustain high moral and professional standards. We shall keep a close watch on the Commissioners in many different ways, which includes the improved methods of transparency that you have promised us.However, in my view, we need to make greater progress on the institutional problem, because that is what the institutions’ image hinges on as far as the European citizens are concerned. I think that the points of that triangle you mentioned – Commission, Parliament and Council – must evolve, are evolving and will evolve along an upwards course towards the progressive, inevitable transfer of powers from the governments – that is, from the Council – to the citizens, and therefore to Parliament. This is the basic process that we can either speed up or slow down. We are asking you – and this is why we are happy to put our confidence in a strong Commission – to do all you can, which means a lot, and maybe even more than you imagine doing at the moment. We are asking you to be ambitious in this area, to make sure that as you already said in a meeting with the leaders of the parliamentary groups, the relationship between Parliament and the Commission is a positive one.This is possible, but it depends on you. It also depends on us. We will do all we can to create the conditions necessary for success. However, we are doing all this as a means to implement European policies. We accept the commitments that enlargement brings, but even if the focus is now essentially shifting towards Central and Eastern Europe, we must not lose sight of the Mediterranean policies that Europe has a duty to adopt.I know that there is a great deal of work to do. I know that the difficulties may seem impossible to overcome. But I also know that you have the right qualities, the will and the ability to succeed. Aim high, Mr President!
Mr President, Mrs Patrie's suggestion comes as a huge surprise to me, because not a single new issue was raised during the extensive debate we held here yesterday, both in the morning and in the afternoon, and because Commissioner Bolkestein has also emphatically confirmed that the Green Paper and the draft regulation are completely compatible. Moreover, I should like to draw Parliament's attention to the fact that this report has been approved in the Committee on Legal Affairs by an overwhelming majority, with two votes against and two abstentions, and that normally speaking, this report would not have been discussed in the plenary had we applied the new procedure. What is more, it cannot be the intention, surely, to obstruct the legislative procedure because a group, however important it may be, fails to reach unanimity on this report. It is up to us to assume our responsibility freely; this is quite simply our mandate.
I am able to confirm that it is Mr Imbeni’s interpretation which is the correct one. The French, Danish and English versions are correct. The phrase is to be understood as Mr Imbeni said.
Mr President, to get legal clarity on tendering rules in the EU, unfortunately the committee voted to delete most of the specific exemptions in favour of one very wide one, Amendment No 61. But it is open to legal and political challenge to simply cite democratic decision-making as a justification for exemption from EU legal rules for the internal market. I therefore commend the specific amendments from the  Group – Amendments Nos 110 to 112. These would mean that authorities would be justified in not tendering metro and tram services if there were good reasons of cost, safety or risk of creating a permanent private monopoly rather than competition. Any claim for exemption would have to be justified to the European Commission.In addition, there are provisions for direct award of contracts in the absence of tenders or in emergencies. I appeal in particular to the left of this House. You take a big risk if you rely only on Amendments Nos 61 and 62. They may not survive the course and as an insurance policy we need specific provisions to protect large complex metro systems like London's from being split up for tendering or risking becoming a private monopoly.
Mr President, the legislative package being discussed to create a Single European Sky is a very challenging one. I would like at this stage to thank the rapporteurs for their excellent cooperation and in taking this matter forward.The problem with European airspace is congestion. There is an enormous volume of air traffic in Central Europe. Ensuring that it flows well demands cooperation between the Member States, and this has already been achieved. Nevertheless, in sparsely populated Member States, such as Finland, there are not very many problems of this sort. The country’s domestic air traffic, in particular, can be managed very flexibly alone.The objectives in the report are ambitious. It has a number of far-reaching proposals. One of them concerns the division of airspace. Dividing up the airspace into sectors could be brought about if necessary through qualified majority decisions. One might wonder whether this is necessary to achieve the objectives or whether cooperation between the Member States would suffice. It may well be that closer integration in the heart of the EU is essential, but there is probably no need for it in the peripheral regions, given their special circumstances. A problem, too, is charges. If air traffic control services were charged based on average values it might well mean that charges would clearly rise in some areas.A more delicate problem is the integration of military aviation and air defence with the European system. Traditionally, military matters and questions of defence do not fall within the scope of the codecision procedure, involving the Council and Parliament, in the EU, and there is no justification for that now either. Consequently, in this regard too we should tread carefully and respect agreed principles.Even taking these difficulties into consideration, however, the reports are extremely valuable and the objectives they have set their sights on are excellent.
Mr President, today, on behalf of the European Commission, President Prodi set out a position of great political and institutional importance. Adhering to Jean Monnet’s vision and the Community method, the Commission is today reinvigorating its ambitious and forward-looking role in European integration with a blueprint that meets our expectations. I would like to focus on three issues: firstly, Europe has to become a global political power. The new position of Secretary of the Union for Foreign Affairs would represent a strong Europe, able to set out its position in international bodies through a single representative. Mr President, you are aware of my personal desire to see faster work and a substantial increase in the quality of our capabilities in the area of defence. I am saying this as a friend of the United States: the world will be a better place if it contains a strong Europe, capable of acting on the strength of its values.Secondly, the Commission has to become the sole repository of executive power, reinforced in its role as the expression of the common interest of the Union; in other words, we must move towards a genuine Union government, elected by the democratic representatives of European citizens and accountable to the institutions which represent the citizens and the States. Other institutional figures, lacking a clearly defined role and which would undermine the unity of representation abroad, must not interfere with the government of the Union.Thirdly, Europe must become more effective and coherent, capable of vigorously rebutting the attacks launched by eurosceptic groupings which, in my country too, use Europe as a scapegoat for domestic failures.In short, to create a partnership between Europe and its citizens, we need to simplify our procedures and make them more transparent by making codecision the rule, reducing the number of legislative instruments, abolishing unanimous voting and reforming the way the Union is financed. I would add that we must strive to combat corruption and promote the pluralism of information.Mr President, only if we proceed on this basis will we be able to conclude this process, at the end of 2003, with a Constitution and a second, high quality, credible Treaty of Rome.
Commissioner, I just want to clarify matters as there seems to be very bad interpretation – I was not talking about the Charter of Fundamental Rights but about the Social Charter including the rights of workers. These include working conditions which I think are a corollary to the movement of services. What are the conditions under which services are provided? What are the conditions under which people are working? That is the corollary of free movement.
Mr President, I am reminded on occasions like this how very specialised these debates must appear to the rest of Parliament given that we are so small in number. Seeing so many friendly and familiar faces here this evening, however, I am also reminded that we perhaps make up in sheer intelligence and talent for the lack of numbers that we are able to muster this evening, merry gang of telecoms specialists that we are.On a more serious note, I would like to thank many colleagues here this evening for their support and cooperation in producing this report, which really was a collective effort. I know that all parliamentary reports are collective efforts, but this one very much represented a collective effort by the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy as a whole, including the shadow spokespeople. This was reflected in the unanimous vote in our committee.It is not an exaggeration to say that this report represents a welcome new development in the way in which Parliament is working, in the way in which we are increasingly not only promulgating and amending legislation, but also developing a highly welcome preoccupation about how that legislation is subsequently implemented. It would be irresponsible for us as legislators not to pay due attention to what happens to our worthy texts once they are adopted as legislative texts. This is a model example of not only cooperation across parties, but also cooperation between institutions in ensuring implementation is properly and fully pursued.I would like to isolate four points which are of particular significance. First, in urging the Commission to take action against those Member States that have not yet implemented the telecoms legislation in good time, and welcoming any action already taken, it is important to remember that we stress in paragraph 3 of this report that we also believe the Commission should continually look at innovative ways of not only forcing implementation on those reluctant Member States, but also encouraging implementation by benchmarking and comparative analyses. The Commission can produce these in order to urge the laggards to take a good example from those Member States who are perhaps more advanced.Second, our comments in this report on the regulatory structure and the European Regulatory Group are important. In paragraph 22, we put it on record that we feel that the existence of the European Regulators Group – the ERG – and the Independent Regulators Group – the IRG – is increasingly illogical because there is so much overlap between the two. Whilst many of us here understand that the Commission cannot take a formal position on this, it is worth stressing this evening that we feel there is absolutely no logical reason why these two bodies should coexist as is currently the case. A merger between the ERG and the IRG is desirable.I would like to see more proactive input from the Commission as regards the accession countries, and the degree to which they are abiding not only by the old framework but also looking to adopt the new framework. In our discussions with the Commission on this report, the Commission explained that it would be too onerous and complicated to meet an initial demand made by myself and others for specific reports on the implementation of telecoms law in the accession countries. In the end we urged the Commission to collate more information on the state of play in the accession countries. However, it is important that it should be taken seriously. If one looks at the monitoring reports issued recently by the Commission, there are only about two or three paragraphs on the telecoms sector in many of these countries. That really is not good enough. As they approach their own date of entry into the European Union, it is essential that we monitor that situation more closely than perhaps has been the case hitherto.Finally, I would like to draw special attention to the importance of paragraph 9 in our report, which stresses once again that notwithstanding the emphasis in all the regulatory activity in recent years on increasing access-based competition, our long-term goal has to remain facilities-based competition. That is sometimes obscured by all the battles we have about local loop unbundling, bit stream access and so on. At the end of the day, what we want for the benefit of European consumers, let alone European telecoms operators, is sustainable, robust, facilities-based competition. It is to that end that I hope this implementation report has made some contribution.
Mr President, if the Council is to maintain the text, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market was unanimous in wishing to reject this proposal, both for technical and political reasons. It is possible for Parliament to vote to finally reject the text, rather than refer the matter back to committee. I do not think that the committee will change its mind, for technical and political reasons. If the Council is not good enough to be here then we should finally reject it now.(Parliament agreed to close the procedure.)***Report (A5-0275/2003) by Maurizio Turco, on behalf of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, on the initiative by the Hellenic Republic with a view to adopting a Council Framework Decision concerning the application of the 'ne bis in idem' principle (7246/2003 – C5-0165/2003 – 2003/0811(CNS))(Parliament adopted the text)***Report (A5-0256/2003) by Klaus-Heiner Lehne, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, on the Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament and the Council – A more coherent European contract law – An action plan (COM(2003) 68 C5-0210-2003 – 2003/2093(INI))(Parliament adopted the text)***Report (A5-0263/2003) by Ingo Schmitt, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council regulation on the negotiation and implementation of air service agreements between Member States and third countries (COM(2003) 94 – C5-0065/2003 – 2003/0044(COD))(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)***Report (A5-0254/2003) by Mark Watts, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, on the proposal for a Council decision concluding an agreement on maritime transport between the European Community and the People's Republic of China (6049/1/2003 REV1 – COM(2002) 97 – C5-0062/2003 – 2002/0048(CNS))(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)***Report (A5-0258/2003) by Alexander Radwan, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the adequacy of banks' own funds (Basel II) (2001/2257(INI))(Parliament adopted the resolution)***Report (A5-0267/2003) by Emmanouil Mastorakis, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, on the communication from the Commission 'Second progress report on economic and social cohesion: regional trends, debate on future developments' (COM(2003) 34 – 2003/2095(INI))(Parliament adopted the resolution)***Report (A5-0188/2003) by José Javier Pomés Ruiz, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, on structurally disadvantaged regions (islands, mountain regions, regions with low population density) in the context of cohesion policy, and their institutional prospects (2002/2119(INI))Before the vote on Amendment No 9:
The European Union must indeed take the lead in the WTO negotiations about the liberalisation of trade in services and the achievement of a general GATS agreement. These negotiations are certainly more than crucial for Europe. First of all, the fact is that services are forming an ever more significant part of world trade, 24% of which, as we know, is accounted for by the European Union. Furthermore, the European Union is currently the biggest importer and the biggest exporter of services in the world. Another reason to take these GATS negotiations in hand is naturally – or unfortunately, I should say – the continuing slowdown of economic growth. We must therefore concentrate more than ever before on the trade in services, and this once again applies in particular to the European Union where services represent more than two-thirds of the total gross domestic product.We must not, however, negotiate solely on the basis of our own interests but also on the basis of the interests of other countries and other parts of the world. Liberalisation means we must also open our borders more to services from third countries and thus contribute to their further development.
Mr President, on behalf of theGroup, I wish to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Foster, for the excellent way in which she has drafted the proposal with regard to this important matter. We still have a number of unresolved issues before us on which we should try to achieve a balanced result which suits everyone. As has already been said here before, the Council, for its part, has not done its homework sufficiently well and has not considered or discussed Parliament’s proposals at all thoroughly. It is therefore reasonable for our committee to propose that some key amendments be revised even though we are now on the home straight.Our group has tabled Amendment No 34 to Article 4, which concerns legal provisions for small airports. Flexibility is needed here. The amendment makes the wording more specific in such a way that at the same time it increases flexibility with regard to the types of aircraft being used. I would also ask Members to consider whether that form of wording achieves a compromise that suits us all with regard to solving the problem of small volumes of air traffic without incurring enormous costs.Secondly, I want to emphasise the importance of Amendment No 8, which concerns announced inspections. It is important. If there is a constant threat of an EU inspection, standards tend to be kept up. However, if an inspection had to be announced, everything necessary to improve security for air travel would not be done beforehand. In addition we have to ensure that matters drawn attention to after the inspection are actually put right.Our group has worked on the assumption that it must be taken into account in dealing with these matters what it is reasonable to do at EU level and what it is better to leave to the Member States’ own discretion, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. For that reason we are not very keen on amendments that mean increased costs without, however, significantly improving security. Action taken must be in proportion to what is reasonable for each country. The same goes for monitoring, where it is only sensible to take account of the particular circumstances that apply.
Mr President, Madam Minister, just as the Minister did in a part of his speech, I am also going to use the second Finnish national language.The agenda of the Finnish Presidency does not contain any great surprises; it is balanced, and is focused on the most important challenges to the Union. The agenda actually emphasises those problems which earlier Summit Meetings have agreed that we should solve in Helsinki. I am very glad that the minister tackled the problems concerning the work of the Council of Ministers so frankly for I am of the opinion that they have not been discussed sufficiently, and there remain for us many tricky problems to be solved. Precisely for this reason, many issues have also been delayed until Finland's Presidency.We emphasise in the agenda a strong and open Europe, which is correct. A strong Europe is a Europe in which the institutions are strong, not where some strongmen solve Europe's problems. Unfortunately we have witnessed the tendency that some problems have not been solved in the institutions, but by individual persons. This is not in the spirit of Monnet. I hope that the Finnish presidency will succeed in its aim of making the EU act unanimously for a common policy and with common will.A strong Union is also a Union which is able to create stability in its neighbouring regions. For this reason, it is important to also build up a comprehensive and clear strategy of involvement, which includes countries such as Albania and Macedonia, by means of successful expansion and through credible crisis management. Regardless of all the work carried out with a view to stabilisation, there are nevertheless risks that the streams of refugees might increase. In this regard, I think that the Finnish agenda could have been more ambitious, in particular in light of the Kosovo crisis. We certainly must not find ourselves once again in a situation of unreadiness as was the case when we had to find a solution to the distribution of payments.I finally wish to stress that I sincerely hope that Minister Halonen, who knows the situation in Slovakia personally, is going to fight for an end to the discrimination, for instance against the Roma population, which exists there as well as elsewhere.
Mr President, should the introduction of communication technology take priority in the developing countries? At first glance, the answer is no. After all, the fight against poverty is the main issue. If one fights for one’s daily bread, one will not be concerned with e-mail. In order to develop, however, it is necessary to have economic growth, and hence competitiveness, and developing countries will lose this competitive battle if the digital divide with the rich countries is widening rather than narrowing. That should not happen. In addition, there is the threat that, in poor countries, the distance between the informed elite and the population will lead to greater power inequality than is already the case. If anything could benefit the spread of information and power, or democratisation in a word, then it is the ICT revolution. That is why a European strategy must be developed. Mrs Dybkjær has drafted an excellent report on this matter. The public and private sectors are both crucial in this. The government is vital for drafting sound legislation, for administrative guidance and promotion. ICT will need to be included in the sector programmes, and a strategic selection of target groups will need to be made. These are primarily the most important government bodies, but also education and health care could become far more efficient by using the new technologies. In addition, ICT can contribute to better environmental management and to saving energy. All of this will not be easy, and it will take some time but, ultimately, the new technology will prove to be vitally important in the fight against poverty and in making development possible.
Mr President, on behalf of the liberal group, I can say that we broadly support the Commission's proposals. We find the new system better than the old system, which was more or less a system of deficiency payments.We also find the amounts specified by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development excessive. We will therefore support Mr Garot's and Mr Adam's amendments, which are slightly more modest but which do in fact provide a good negotiating position in respect of the Council.My group has submitted new amendments which relate to the identification of the animals. We consider it to be of the utmost importance that when money is being distributed – animal premiums and suchlike – the control system is spick and span and there is very little wrong with it. The Commission should therefore introduce a new identification system as soon as possible.Finally, and I am saying this on behalf of the group, I have tabled amendments stating that dikes and salt marshes in Europe will also be regarded as least favoured areas.
Paragraph 23 makes a useful reference to the European social model.This model should be developed in order to safeguard social standards that are attractive to the rest of the world. Giving employees the possibility of having a share in business assets is a path that we must take and that should bring about fresh proposals from the Commission to take effect in particular in the Member States, by using the system of tax exemptions.In this context, the use of tax exemptions in high-employability sectors (public works, services, hotel and catering trade, etc.) should be integrated into the European social model.
Mr President, I am very pleased that we are moving forward in terms of better lawmaking. As a pro-European I find it extremely frustrating that we bring forward legislation in this place that is not properly thought through and that not only damages this Parliament: it also damages our credibility.We also need to look at current legislation to see whether it is being implemented across each Member State. If it is not being implemented, is this because it is unworkable? If it is unworkable, why do we not just repeal that legislation, instead of simply bringing forward further legislation in the same field, as we appear to do at the moment.We also have to look at whether it is really necessary at European level in all cases. If it is necessary then we have to go for comprehensive impact assessment, based on up-to-date scientific and medical evidence in some areas where it is applicable, such as health and safety legislation in the employment and social affairs field.We must also take into account the situation in each Member State. The accuracy of impact assessments really must be improved – I must say that I do not believe that they are very good at the moment. They must also be available at a very early stage so that we can have genuine consultation. That consultation should include the actual instrument which is most appropriate for that specific subject area.All the outcomes and all the contributions should be put into the public domain. I am very pleased that Mr Medina Ortega has agreed to refer back his motion. It is right that he should do that. I congratulate him on all the work that he has done but his motion has, of course, been superseded by the interinstitutional agreement.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, firstly I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Haug, for an excellent report, and for having come to hear the views of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism. Our committee tabled two amendments for the report. Owing to tight meeting timetables, they have been brought to the plenary session via my own group, and I hope that they may be adopted.Amendment No 19 reminds everyone that there must be adequate payment appropriations for Structural Funds programmes, trans-European transport networks and other budget headings relating to transport, so that the programmes may be effectively implemented right at the start of the programming period. In this way payments made at the end of the programming period – as was the case the previous year – are avoided.Amendment No 20 concerns innovative measures. The appropriation must be kept at the level decided at Berlin. We have to remember that the Interinstitutional Agreement contains a pledge that the reduction in appropriations by EUR 200 million made the previous year should be made good this year. Our committee is not proposing to move appropriations set aside under the URBAN initiative to be used for innovative measures: the compensating appropriations have to be found elsewhere. The importance of innovation was stressed both at the Lisbon and Feira summits. Innovation must therefore be adequately supported. The implementation in practice of innovative measures in the area of Structural Funds has not got under way because preparatory work on the part of the Commission has lagged seriously behind.Our committee supports the policy of support for employment and the importance of SMEs in Mrs Haug’s report. The Commission and the Member States should also simplify and speed up administration procedures relating to Structural Funds. More attention should be paid to the success of projects at approval stage.
Mr President, European Liberal Democrats in this House hope that President Valéry Giscard d'Estaing will present to the Heads of State and Government a draft Constitutional Treaty which commands a broad consensus. It must dampen the fires of the increasingly bitter disputes we have witnessed in recent weeks. However, it is for the Convention, not its President, to confirm the existence or not of a consensus, and if the Convention needs a little more time to complete its work, so be it. Mr Giscard d'Estaing likes to say that his Constitution will last unchanged for 50 years, but unless a durable consensus is reflected in the final text and Member States are given the time to debate it we are likely to have to revisit the matter in the very near future.The latest proposals provide hope that the Praesidium is now in listening mode, but there is clearly still much listening to do. Even with the restrictions on his role in foreign policy, European Liberal Democrats remain unconvinced of the case for a full-time chairman of the European Council. We are suspicious that the larger Member States seek to unpick the seams of the Community fabric.A double-hatted approach for Europe's new Foreign Minister commands widespread support, so why not take the same approach and integrate the roles of European Commission and European Council Presidents? Must we risk years of conflict, of turf wars, of duplication of effort before we recognise the sense of this approach? At the very least we must leave open the door to an integrated presidency in a few years time.President Prodi spoke – and I have sympathy with much that he said – of the national veto. In the name of preserving national sovereignty, the veto all too often promotes international anarchy. Unless we are capable of thinking in new ways about the concept of sovereignty, we will continue to fail our citizens on the major challenges we face.While I welcome the proposed extension of Parliament's powers of democratic control over the budget and European legislation, I am concerned that an imbalance remains between the powers of Parliament and Council in other areas, such as concluding agreements with third countries on crucial security matters.Mr President-in-Office, another item on your agenda in Thessaloniki will be the debate on High Representative Solana's recommendations for an overall strategy in foreign and security policy. It is vital for the European Union to develop a doctrine which enshrines the central role of international law and of institutions such as the UN, the WTO and NATO.Europe also urgently needs a framework for deciding under which conditions we should commit troops to military action, including conflict prevention, peace enforcement and humanitarian crises. Congo is a welcome step forward but our current embarrassment over Bosnia-Herzegovina is a setback. And to prevent the European Union fracturing again as it did over Iraq, we need to start debating and planning now our approach to the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. I hope that the summit will discuss Europe's approach to North Korea and Iran and not leave it until a crisis erupts.In the area of Justice and Home Affairs, I commend the President-in-Office for the progress made thus far under Greece's stewardship. I hope that you will continue to seek to balance repressive measures against illegal immigration with a generous approach to refugees and an emphasis on human rights and fundamental freedoms. I would also appeal to the President-in-Office to make every effort to conclude three important proposals concerning third-country nationals who are long-term residents, minimum standards for qualifying for refugee status and minimum standards for the granting of such status.Mr President-in-Office, you touched on the subject of a Members' Statute. I fear that the proposal we adopted yesterday will not make your work any easier, but I hope you will be guided in this, as in other matters on your agenda, by the advice of your philosopher, Socrates: remember that there is nothing stable in human affairs, therefore avoid undue elation in prosperity, or undue depression in adversity.(Applause)
Mr President, I have two short minutes in which to make four points. Firstly I would like to join in the warm congratulations to Commissioner Lamy and indeed his distinguished predecessor Sir Leon, now Lord, Brittan. I hope the brevity of my congratulations does not diminish the warmth of them.Secondly, a point addressed to the Council. The Council's attitude towards parliamentary assent to a deal like this is linked to the Council's parallel attitude towards the Commission's proposal for its extension of its own powers over areas such as intellectual property and services in Article 133 more generally. I have to confess I get the impression that there is a certain degree of institutional territoriality here, particularly in the large Member States, where the trade and industry ministries are very reluctant to see the Commission continue to extend its scope in those new areas in WTO trade negotiations and, consistent with that, also reluctant to see the European Parliament increase its influence. This simply cannot carry on. It is such a weird anachronism that a policy that was communautarised back in the 1950s is as unaccountable and non-transparent as it is. I would plead for the internal territorial interests of Member States to be overcome on this particular point.Thirdly, technical assistance. It is great that we are going to coordinate with the Americans, but look at the numbers: EUR 25 million is absolutely nothing in comparison to the challenge we face! We have a total budget for China of EUR 80 million. Even if we allocate all of that to China-WTO accession it would still not be enough. We – the Commission, Council and Parliament – have to be a lot more ambitious in actually allocating much more money towards this enormous task.Finally, human rights. I hope the fact that we have signed up to this bilateral deal with the Chinese does not leave them thinking that we are going to be any more forgiving on human rights. It is all the more important that all three institutions should now be particularly robust about the way the Chinese behave in the so-called dialogue on human rights. Let us not give them the impression that a deal on the WTO means that we are going to be weak on human rights – it should be the reverse. We should be all the more robust.
Mr President, Mr van Hulten has done some excellent work in reforming the Financial Regulation and this report is also an excellent example of that. My sincerest thanks go to him accordingly. The reform of the Financial Regulation began with the report in 1999 by the external committee of experts commonly known as the Five Wise Men. The report mentioned the importance of both simplifying financial administration and clarifying personal accountability. Parliament and the Council approved the new Financial Regulation last spring and it comes into force from the beginning of next year. The reform is partly linked to the Commission’s administrative reform.The rules for implementation now being discussed are connected with this new Financial Regulation. The reform would mean an end to the old ex ante control with responsibility moving away from financial administration to be borne entirely by the authorising officer. This change will mean an increase in their power and responsibility. Because authorising officers are the officials with the most important executive role they must be fully accountable for their actions, and cannot take refuge behind the backs of others. With accountability hopefully becoming clearer, we can also increase efficiency, as at present, for example, delays in making payments in the Commission are too long and do not in any way match the sort of efficiency we see in the world of business.The system now to be decided on must not be spoilt by new amendments. For that reason, Amendments Nos 33 and 34, for example, are not acceptable, as they would allow for responsibility for execution to be shared once again by two people, the authorising officer and the accounting officer. The system has to be clear and transparent.
Mr President, I can assure Mr Poos that we understand perfectly what he is proposing and it is the inclusion of the second part of Amendment No 9 that we specifically object to.
Mr President, this year’s general rapporteur for the budget, Mr Göran Färm, has produced an excellent report on the implementation of the budget and I wish to thank him sincerely for that. The report quite rightly examines two key points in detail, those being outstanding commitments and decommitment, that is, the N+2 rule. As I mentioned earlier on, outstanding commitments stood at EUR 126 billion in April, which was an increase of over EUR 15 billion in one year. These outstanding commitments were especially evident in the Structural Funds where they stood at EUR 94 billion, which is to say the amount for appropriations for almost three years.The situation is grave. At the start of the present programming period the N+2 rule was approved. It states that there is to be decommitment if no payments have been made for two years. The Commission seems to be interpreting the rule in such a way that advance payments, which are not even based on any invoices presented, should be regarded as payments. A project can be kept alive in this way from one year to the next by means of small advance payments, even though the project itself might not have even begun to be implemented. The Commission should improve the way the N+2 rule is monitored and restore its original purpose.
Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Camisón Asensio, for dealing competently with such a complex subject and, on behalf of my Group, I would like to express my support for the basic line taken by the regulation. It is precisely because we think we should push forward with and put pressure on the processes of the liberalisation of the markets and transport services that we feel that there is room for the States to retain, in a limited number of cases, their right and duty to intervene to ensure that urban development objectives are pursued and that social and environmental requirements are met.Amongst these matters, there is no doubt that the incentive for sustainable mobility is an historic objective that must be pursued now; from this standpoint, therefore, the aid for use of infrastructure by companies, which is intended to compensate for incremental unpaid infrastructure and external costs of competing modes of transport, must also be accepted. We are forced to this point because the forecast contained in Article 4 of the regulation is dictated solely by the absence of a general Community legislation on the definition, assessment and charging of the costs of using the infrastructure, whether they are internal or external. This is a subject upon which Parliament has already expressed its opinion in a report which I had the honour to present on its behalf.This is why, just until the Commission produces its proposal – and I am less sceptical on this point than Mr Jarzembowski because I hope, or rather, I am sure, that the Commission will succeed in producing measures and technical forms that will resolve many of the theoretical problems which are still being raised – I feel that the possibility laid down in Amendments Nos 26, 40 and 48 of an explicit link between State aid and objectives of the effective transfer of freight volumes towards more sustainable modes of transport must be supported. In conclusion, I feel that the 'contract' which we envisage establishing temporarily with those who genuinely undertake to uphold sustainable mobility is something which can be employed until more general rules are introduced.
Mr President, Europe is to lead the world in the coming decade where use of the Internet is concerned. This was proposed at the Lisbon Summit last spring. It is both an excellent and necessary ambition. If, within the EU, we want to be competitive and stand on the front line, then this is a highly reasonable objective. Therefore, we Liberals share the Commission's ambitions, but we find it very hard to understand the specific proposals put forward by the Commission.If Europe is to be the world's most dynamic continent and able to surpass the Americans when it comes to attracting the companies of the new economy, we need to provide good e-commerce opportunities. VAT-free e-commerce is what e-Europe needs – not bureaucracy and new taxes.According to the current rules, companies within the EU which sell music, computer games, software and services distributed electronically are taxed within the EU if these are bought by consumers within the EU. Companies from countries which are not members of the EU are not taxed at all. These rules lead to a distortion of competition which obviously needs to be remedied, but the Commission's proposal is a step in the wrong direction. Companies from countries outside the EU are forced to register a subsidiary company in at least one EU country to be able to carry on business within the Union.The report makes certain adjustments, as stated also by the rapporteur, but as we have heard, it shares the Commission's basic position. This is not a good solution for Europe. It is an old-fashioned way of thinking which does not fit in with the new economy. The proposal will put the EU behind in the game and would also be very difficult to control.In order to give e-Europe a kick-start, the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party proposes that the Commission's proposal be rejected and that the Member States be given the opportunity to introduce zero rate VAT on e-commerce. This zero rate VAT should apply until the VAT rules for non-electronic goods and services have been thoroughly examined and an agreement has been reached within OECD or another international forum on a common position on the taxation of e-commerce.Mr President, let the experiences from the taxation package serve as an example. A global view is required. Many are in fact asking themselves, Commissioner, why Europeans are always so quick to introduce taxes and new rules? We do not need higher taxes in the EU, instead we need lower taxes.
Mr President, the Olympic Charter and its fundamental principles stress that Olympism seeks to create a way of life based on the joy found in effort, the educational value of good example and respect for universal fundamental ethical principles. It is therefore crucial that these fundamental principles embrace respect for core labour standards in the production of sports articles for the Olympic Games.Today, in the context of such production, the failure to respect labour law as laid down by the International Labour Organisation has been observed. Several factors indicate that many sports articles are produced by subcontracting firms which, through their improper conditions of work and employment, breach not only labour law, but also human rights. They do so by failing to respect humane working hours, by not giving their employees a safe and healthy workplace and, in addition, by providing nothing like decent and reasonable remuneration. Again, the problems relating to child labour might also be cause for reflection.We also call on the sports industry to be vigilant in tackling this unfortunate state of affairs, which it is greatly responsible for and party to, and we call on it to adopt and respect, as quickly as possible, a genuine code of good ethical conduct, aimed at increasing human dignity.
Mr President, I should like to thank Mrs Hautala for a good piece of work. If it had only depended upon herself, the result could certainly have been still better, but we have to be able to live with compromises, and these are important steps that are now being taken to move closer to equality in Europe.The right to equal conditions at the workplace is a fundamental right and should go without saying. That is unfortunately not the case. The issue is one of human dignity and of avoiding harassment, something with which everyone ought to agree. In spite of this, we know that many women in Europe are at present exposed to sexual harassment on a daily basis. A genuine change in attitude is needed, but also clear and vigorous legislation if we are to create equal opportunities in working life. The present values also lead to large discrepancies in salaries between men and women.I nonetheless think it is important to say that equal opportunities for men and women are not in actual fact only a women’s issue. It is an issue that affects us all, irrespective of our gender. Rights are needed which make it possible for both mothers and fathers to combine professional and family life. Maternity and paternity leave must obviously be brought into line with each other. My own experience teaches that equality must begin in the home. I sometimes think that the Committee on Women’s Rights and Equal Opportunities does not do enough to include us men in its view of equality. I think that that is a pity and is in danger of delaying more resolute work for equality within the European Union.I should like to conclude by saying that I feel dissatisfied with Amendment 7. I do not think that the wording goes far enough. Every mother and father must be entitled to return to her or his own work after parental leave. I emphasise his or her own work. The wording, work of equal value is not enough, for there is then a risk of employers less conscious of their responsibilities exploiting this opportunity to create worse conditions for parental leave. Unfortunately, there are many such examples in my own country, too. I should therefore have liked to have seen clearer wording.Allow me an additional ten seconds – given that Mrs Lulling was given an extra two minutes – and allow me to say to the latter that my marriage would never have survived if my wife and I had not shared the parental leave equally.In view of the fact that Mrs Lulling spoke so clearly, all of us in this House understand that Amendment 17 will of course be supported by Mrs Lulling, and for that I am very grateful. Thank you.
Mr President, when we visited Washington last week with this Parliament’s delegation, and stayed a few days longer than originally planned, not only myself but also our American colleagues became increasingly aware of a common interest. I witnessed among the Americans, and certainly in their administration, more restraint than we generally give them credit for over here, or than we can infer from the sometimes unfortunately chosen words of the President.Some of our American colleagues quite clearly said that the time for fine words is over. I believe that they are right. This is not only true of the relationship we have with them, but also of the action this Parliament intends to take. If we want to talk about punishing terrorists, then we have, in fact, already missed the boat.I hope that we can also talk about deterrence from time to time. This would involve cooperation among police forces, examining magistrates and intelligence services. Commissioner, I hope that your proposals will be dealt with as soon as possible, as I am sure they will be. Then it will become clear who in this House is for or against cooperation, who truly wants to make headway and who does not.President-in-Office of the Council, I hope that at your meetings behind closed doors, it will also be clear to us who is for and against, who wants to carry on and who does not, so that we can draw our own conclusions and make our own judgments. We are still in shock at the moment and are still sharing in the grief of our American friends, but who will recall this debate in one or two years’ time? I hope that we will still be very much alert and that we will be able to remember what was said here today.
Mr President, the discharge procedure is one of the most important rights and duties of the European Parliament. Parliament must acquaint itself with how finances are being managed and establish whether the Commission has been doing its job properly. Parliament cannot therefore grant discharge without justification. Granting discharge means that the information received and obtained by Parliament indicates that the Commission has functioned properly. If there are points that need clarification that emerge later on, we can always return to them, even if discharge has been granted.The report proposes that a deadline be given for discharge. This is a good thing. A situation where discharge is still pending from one year to the next, as has been the case here in recent years, does not show a businesslike or responsible approach to administration.One problem is refusal to grant discharge. If discharge is not granted and a decision is taken on this, the reason is either malpractice or political distrust. Malpractice necessitates bringing charges against the authority or authorities concerned. If malpractice is not indicated, the accounts must be closed. If the reason for refusal of discharge is political, I think the Commission in that case should be forced to resign.The system that has now been outlined, according to which refusal of discharge would be followed by a vote on a motion for censure, is good but unclear. If there is a motion for censure against the Commission or a Commissioner but discharge is not granted, there is a contradiction in the system. The contradiction may be due to the fact that discharge can be refused by a simple majority but a motion for censure only by a qualified majority. For that reason this conflict should not in any sense be made possible.
Mr President, I should like to thank Mrs Gröner for her splendid work and for the personal, almost passionate commitment she has shown in preparing the present report. I should also like to thank the Council and the Commission for contributing to our at long last achieving a good result. The Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party is very happy to support those initiatives which give young people in Europe opportunities to acquire knowledge, skills and qualifications which will help form the basis of their future development. The strength of the programme is, of course, that, by means of cross-national exchanges, it encourages young people to contribute actively to further European integration. It will also lead to understanding of the cultural and linguistic diversity within the European Union. I also think that the programme will ensure that the fundamental values upon which the European Union is founded will continue to be propagated. Through increased communication between young people in Europe, the programme will indirectly help combat xenophobia and increase respect for human rights. Finally, the Community’s action programme for youth also gives consideration to the forthcoming enlargement of the Union, something which we in the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party believe to be of crucial importance to all EU programmes. I would recommend that we support this programme.
I am sorry to have to make a point of order again about smoking in the workplace. As I was about to make a speech on harassment at work during last night's plenary session, the people in the booth behind me were smoking with the door open. I had an asthma attack just before I was due to speak. That is a case of harassment at the workplace.
Madam President, Commissioner Byrne, on behalf of the, I in turn would like to thank our rapporteur, Mr Nisticò, for the quality and rigour of his work. It is a great pity he is not here this evening to reap the rewards, as it were. That said, I am glad that this joint text was adopted in the Conciliation Committee. It was vital to ensure the same high level of safety of blood donations and transfusions throughout the Union, just as all the improvements made to the legislative text throughout the procedure were vital.These improvements included, first of all, a great victory for blood donors and patients: the insertion of a specific chapter on blood monitoring which covers traceability and notification of incidents and serious unwanted reactions. Thebelieved this to be particularly important, quite simply, I would say, because the need for this type of monitoring requires no further proof in Europe. Blood monitoring networks are a vital tool for making the transfusion chain as safe as possible.On the thorny issue of benevolent donations, my interpretation differs from that of Mr Lund. I am pleased to see that common sense has won the day, as of the second reading. I welcome the fact that the joint text, while strongly encouraging voluntary, benevolent donations – which is the aim of Article 20 – allows the Member States room for manoeuvre to use remunerated donors in a strictly-regulated environment. I need not remind you that the Union imports no less than 50% of plasma-derived therapeutic products, and that haemophiliacs, patients suffering from serious burns and other patients desperately need these products. In this regard, determined implementation of a policy to provide patients with recombinant factors is more necessary than ever in Europe.Thealso wanted the text to contain a reference to scientific and technical progress. This concern was addressed in Article 29, which, in particular, lays down clear guidelines for establishments performing blood transfusions.Lastly, the conciliation procedure has put the finishing touches to the excellent work carried out by the three institutions on this matter. The only point of contention, which I shall mention briefly, is the matter of medical examination prior to donation, which has already been raised. I am pleased, once again, that the Conciliation Committee considers it sufficient to require this examination to be carried out by a qualified health professional. I believe it is silly, as I have said since first reading, to go against certain national practices that give excellent results. I am thinking in particular, although not exclusively, of the awareness campaigns and donations in mobile units that could come to an end if we were to require the presence of a doctor.The European Union is not immune to accidents, of course, or even the appearance of a new virus. North America is currently experiencing a blood product safety alert caused by a virus from a western island. We must therefore increase monitoring, apply the early detection principle for any use of blood, and ensure traceability from donor to recipient. That is the price of establishing a blood chain that will renew the confidence of European citizens.
The EU’s strict visa policy constitutes a major obstacle for people wishing to make their way to Europe. The fact that the visa requirements have been tightened up in recent years has unavoidably led to more cases of trafficking in human beings and to an increase in what is known as illegal immigration to the EU Member States. Those people who have been smuggled in or who have, by some other method, made their way into the European Union have often suffered great tragedies on the way. Once they have arrived in the EU, they have no rights or social protection at all.There is a list of more than 130 countries whose citizens require visas to enter the EU. There are not even as many as 50 states which are exempt from the visa requirement. That practice, whereby a visa requirement is the rule rather than the exception, is unworthy of a democratic Europe. The basic rule must be that people are entitled to travel freely into the EU, not the other way around.Europe must change its attitude to immigration. Within a few years’ time, there will be an acute labour shortage in the EU. That is why it is important for us to accept and welcome people seeking a better future in the EU’s Member States. A more generous visa policy is also a prerequisite for its being possible to pursue a common, humane policy on refugees and asylum. Through a positive policy on immigration, we can put a stop to organised crime and to the human tragedies for which traffickers in human beings are responsible.- Haug report (A5-0064/2001)
It is good that the Commissioner is concerned over the high incidence of salmonella in meat preparations imported into Sweden. We now know that there was an oversight in our accession negotiations. What we are now discussing is not related to heat-treated products. We know that salmonella disappears in such products and only new contamination will reintroduce salmonella into them.In this case, it is about the fact that anyone can put a chicken in a bag with a few grams of salt and claim that it is a preparation. That is the main problem. It is slightly absurd that I am Parliament’s rapporteur in the case of a directive aimed at creating salmonella controls across the whole of the EU which look very much like the Scandinavian controls. As such, it is a little odd that a quick decision cannot be taken on having a salmonella guarantee for preparations which are not heat treated. If we are to achieve salmonella control across the whole of Europe, we need salmonella-free areas, wherever they may be, to be able to protect themselves while others catch up.
Mr President, little new action on immigration and asylum will emerge from Seville. The Tampere agenda had three elements: control, harmonisation and integration. The Council has eagerly legislated on the first with half a dozen laws and a thirty-page action plan on illegal immigration, but it has lagged on harmonisation for a common asylum system and integration of minorities and migrants. That is where leaders need to give ministers a big kick but instead all they will really do is ratchet up the rhetoric of repression and hostility of fortress Europe.The most despicable and stupid proposal is the denial of development aid to countries which fail to stem migration, thereby making them even poorer and generating a new exodus of desperate people. The reality is that far from promoting the greater security Europe needs, the illiberal Blair-Aznar-Berlusconi trio risks creating greater threats for European citizens by their hysterical, populist and macho responses to current challenges.By their abusive hysteria about illegal immigrants and asylum seekers they demonise foreigners and generate more race tensions and suspicions. By their big brother extension of powers for police and security services to monitor people's email, Internet and telephone records they menace individual privacy. By banning organisations like the Kurdish PKK and Batasuna they remove political outlets for dissent as an alternative to terrorism. Accession countries are encouraged to seek EU membership as a beacon of democracy, liberty and tolerance but the Blair-Aznar-Berlusconi trio are making a mockery of that.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank all the rapporteurs warmly for their commendable reports, but also my fellow MEPs for the excellent collaboration in the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy.Mr President, the liberalisation of telecommunications has created a new market environment with more competition and lower prices for companies and consumers.Nevertheless there is still no single internal telecom market. The fifteen fragmented, liberalised markets must be merged into a single transparent market, and the legislation now before us must create the framework for this. The NRAs have an important part to play in this, but in the view of my group the final responsibility should remain with the Commission.My second point, Mr President, concerns licences for radio frequencies. At this moment there is no question in the Member States of the European Union of a consistent policy on the granting of licences. Think, for example of the UMTS auctions. As a result, the Union is threatening to lose its leading position in the field of mobile telephone communications. In the dividing up of the radio spectrum the licence procedures should be subject to the same conditions in all Member States, because for optimum development of the radio and television market we should aim for a better balance in occupation of frequencies between public service providers on the one hand and commercial providers on the other.I would ask the Commissioner to take a more active role in future in formulating the conditions and in relation to the way in which frequencies are distributed. I believe there is also a job here for Commissioner Monti.Finally, Mr President, the revenue that comes from the allocation of wavebands, such as the UMTS auction, should be channelled back to the ICT sector. Mr van Velzen has already pointed this out. It also concurs with the agreements at the Lisbon Summit. Auctions should be avoided wherever possible. Consequently, it is to be welcomed that the Dutch Government decided last week not to hold an auction. In addition, the proceeds of the wavebands should never be seen as a stealth tax.
Mr President, Commissioner, books are an important instrument by means of which culture is passed on, and modern publishing techniques contribute to this. This is why this report is excellent. I would like to thank the rapporteur for all the work and the research she has carried out. It is a field which is continually changing.In the publishing world, however, not only is production important, but so is consumption. Reading is a form of consumption which needs to be encouraged effectively. People have to make choices constantly about how they use their time. This is why I, together with my fellow Member Mr Graça Moura, tabled an amendment concerning the issue of a European day of reading. We proposed 23 April, as it is Shakespeare’s birthday and the anniversary of Cervantes’ death. It therefore covers the whole of Europe. There is already a UNESCO day of reading in many countries. But I grant the Commission the freedom and wisdom to select another date.Commissioner, there is no supply without demand. In order to give an extra boost, Mr Garça Moura and I have also asked for a year of reading, preferably within the foreseeable future, but that might be pushing things.A second point is market forces. A book sector which is synonymous with a multiform and cultural diversity must be protected, where necessary. Fixed book prices and reduced VAT rates, as applied in various Member States to paper printing, must also apply to the electronic alternatives.
Madam President, since the 1970s various Member States have applied the practice of switching to summer time. The dates for starting and ending summer time were harmonised, finally, a few years ago so that they have been the same in all the Member States of the EU since 1996. We have become used to the practice, as the previous speaker just said. The proposal that has now been made is, in the opinion of our group, a good one, and our group supports it, and no more amendments to it are needed. The main issue here is that summer time is applied in all Member States and that the date it starts and the date it ends remain uniform throughout the EU. It is to be welcomed that the proposal states that matters connected with time zones and summer time provisions should be matters for Member States to decide. Harmonisation is necessary only in connection with the practice of summer time starting and ending at the same time in each of the Member States.A harmonised summer time will remove obstacles to the free movement of goods, services and people and promote the more effective realisation of the internal market. Studies on the effects of summer time do not clearly reveal whether the effects, for example on agriculture, are positive or negative. The greatest concerns are mainly to do with the welfare of animals and the working conditions of farmers. The adoption of summer time has meant energy savings, even if they have only been very slight, according to reports. Studies show that traffic safety has improved with the evenings staying light for longer. Long, light evenings also mean opportunities for extended leisure time.
Mr President, the current political crisis in Sri Lanka is having enormous repercussions on the peace process and the country’s economic future.The political divides and the rivalry between Sri Lanka’s President and its Prime Minister threaten the island’s stability and prosperity. Last week, in fact, three ministers were sacked, the parliament was suspended and a state of emergency was declared. The conflict between these leaders is based in particular on the issue of the attitude to be adopted in relation to the Tamil separatists. Mrs Chandrika Kumaratunga wishes to suspend the peace talks with the separatists, while the Sri Lankan Prime Minister wants to continue with them. It is essential that some understanding be reached in order to put an end to the crisis of confidence that is rife among the population, who are already weary of the conflict involving the Tamil separatists, which has gone on for over twenty years.The Sri Lankan people are suffering and have suffered a great deal as a result of the terrorist acts carried out in their country and the climate of insecurity to which these have led. They hope for peace in their island and a stable future. Those are the facts that the Sri Lankan authorities must consider. While the Sri Lankans welcome the progress made in the peace process involving the Tamil separatists, the instability that the President has provoked leaves the country in the grip of a serious crisis of confidence, from both a political and an economic point of view. At a political level, the departure of the Norwegian negotiators, who played a key role in the peace negotiations between the Tamil separatists and the Sri Lankan government, is extremely regrettable. At an economic level, in the textile industry for example, numerous traders are complaining that many orders are being cancelled. Another sector that drives the country’s economy, the tourism industry, is unfortunately also in turmoil. The fact is that travel agents are also reporting a number of cancellations.Many Sri Lankans believe that the gravity of the situation is directly linked to the attitude of the President, who refuses to continue with the peace talks. In light of this climate of hostility, we are calling on the Sri Lankan authorities to resolve these issues as quickly as possible so that they can finally offer their people the stability and the security they deserve.
Mr President, I too want to join in the delight that has been expressed today in many quarters concerning the constructive way in which the budgetary negotiations have proceeded. To outsiders, the effusive way in which we are praising each other may appear odd, but the mutual trust, openness and integrity that has characterised the budgetary negotiations this year inspires confidence that shortening and simplifying the budgetary process along the lines being worked on in the Convention is something that can be done easily and that we can continue the work on ensuring that the budget appears as a political document with clear political priorities. This process will in any case be clearer by next year when we change over to activity-based budgeting and so hopefully remove something of the mystique surrounding the language used in the budget. It will be easier for all of us to see the economic and political priorities in the budget.Good results were achieved in this year’s budget, and I want firstly to point out that, for 2003, we found the money to prepare for enlargement to include ten countries in 2004. Without exceeding the agreed financial framework, EU legislation must be translated into the languages of the new Member States, and staff from the new countries must be appointed. I think that Parliament has made its contribution to that process. Secondly, we found the money for rebuilding Afghanistan and, thirdly, we were given clear pledges by the Council of better cooperation and scrutiny when it came to the funding of the common foreign and security policy. It is important, indeed it is in everyone’s interest, that there should be no recesses of the budget outside parliamentary control.
Mr President, Argentina is in crisis, and when Argentina cries, the whole of the Americas are concerned, as, I believe, Europe is too. Not just because Argentina is a favoured partner of the large trade bloc that goes by the name of Mercosur, but also because of its strong social and cultural links with old Europe.I am afraid we are discovering, through some worrying facts, that the political and economic populism of this wealthy republic does not have a happy ending. The winds sown by certain governments are now being felt by Argentinean citizens, with the disastrous results of the economic whirlwinds we are currently seeing. That is why the European Parliament is calling for international solidarity to try to help these citizens of the southern cone of South America to come up with an appropriate economic policy. We must help a people which, in desperation, lives with and bears the consequences of damaging former government policies, on a daily basis.Our contribution should be to work towards social stability in Argentina and the economic recovery of its people, because what is good for Argentina is good for everybody.
You are no longer my favourite Commissioner, Mr Monti, but you can change that if you give me the right answer tonight!
Mr President, I join in the warm thanks expressed by all my fellow Members to Mrs Echerer. I should also like to do so with reference to the way we cooperated. We might yet – who knows? – feature in her TV programmes, as long, of course, as these are properly protected in terms of intellectual property rights.That everyone is in agreement is evident from the fact that the report has been adopted unanimously in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market. In addition, the encouraging words which the Commissioner has just spoken will now, I think, lead to improved legislation, in respect of which it is particularly important for transparency and legal certainty to be increased and, above all, democratic control, because clarity avoids lack of understanding.We are now all talking about the right-holders, but I think that it is also very important to mention the right-users. I can remember an incident last year when many companies in the Netherlands received a letter out of the blue from the Stichting Reprorecht – the Reproduction Right Foundation – stating that they needed to pay a hefty bill for copies they had made, without any explanation as to the purpose of this exercise. This sparked fear and anxiety. I think that this legislation can ensure that it becomes clearer on what basis certain costs are charged, why certain costs have to be met and for whom they are intended.The Commissioner has already indicated that 5% to 7% of the Gross Domestic Product – which is high – is accounted for by products and services that are limited, governed and protected by copyright and neighbouring rights. This means that we are talking about a considerable proportion of our internal market activities, in which there is a need for clarity and structure. As I have already pointed out, competition and the dominant position of collecting societies should not be a problem as such, as long as legislation is clear and is not used inappropriately. I think that this problem can be solved with these recommendations if they are enshrined in legislation.As Mr Medina Ortega has already indicated, enlargement is also a key aspect of this issue. As a result of their political history, the acceding countries have never given copyright-holders any explicit protection, and this is why I think it is important to provide support on the spot. The rapporteur re-emphasised this point in her oral amendment. We, the Liberals, give her our unqualified backing.By way of conclusion, we welcome this initiative, and we hope that the Commission can adopt the amendment that I have tabled to produce a clear evaluation after three years in order to check whether the legislation actually works and protection takes place. Having kept within the three-minute time limit, I will not further delay this afternoon’s proceedings.
Mr President, on the eve of a potential conflict in Iraq – one that we hope can still be avoided – a debate on the use of anti-personnel mines and depleted uranium ammunition is of great topical interest. After all it has been found that soldiers and civilians who came into contact with depleted uranium ammunition in earlier military conflicts, such as the Gulf War in 1991 and in Kosovo, later experienced serious health problems, what we call Gulf War sickness or Balkan syndrome. They suffer from memory loss, chronic pain and fatigue, symptoms of paralysis and have an increased risk of cancer. United Nations statistics, published in the renowned 'British Medical Journal', indicate that the incidence of cancer in southern Iraq increased sevenfold between 1989 and 1994. Even the US Army Environmental Policy Institute has acknowledged the potentially very serious medical consequences of the use of depleted uranium.Weapons and ammunition that harm the civilian population are in contravention of the Geneva Convention and the Convention on Conventional Weapons. The second Convention is very explicit. It imposes a prohibition or restriction on the use of certain conventional weapons that are deemed to cause excessive injury or that do not discriminate between military and civilian targets. According to information leaked from the Pentagon, about 3 000 guided bombs were fired in the first wave of attacks in Iraq. It seems very likely that the US will use ammunition with depleted uranium again. Parliament must continue to warn of the potential dangers of the use of this type of ammunition. There is an urgent need for an independent, scientific study of the effects of its use, not only on health but also on the environment. We must have a moratorium on the use of depleted uranium while we wait for the results of such a study.The European Union must play a pioneering role in this, just as it did in the campaign for a worldwide ban on antipersonnel mines, as was laid down in the Ottawa Convention. And my questions, Mr President, concern that Convention, its ratification and application. To be very explicit, I wanted to ask the Council exactly what actions are planned to ensure that as many Member States and candidate countries as possible sign this Convention. You will understand that I would really like to hear from the current President-in-Office of the Council why Greece is actually waiting before signing this important Convention. Finally, in anticipation of hopefully being able to avoid a possible international conflict, I urge the Council to make a clear statement guaranteeing that the Member States of the European Union will not use weapons that are banned under international law or are deemed to be illegal in this or any future armed conflict.
Madam President, we can all put our signatures to what is written in the resolution. We know that the United Nations’ Commission for Human Rights requested a moratorium in April last year. This year, this demand was repeated. They also requested all the States which still had the death penalty progressively to reduce the number of crimes for which the death penalty is imposed. We have many shocking figures relating to the number of people that are still awaiting the death penalty in the United States. According to the information that I have, this involves 3 670 people.In the resolution, we point to the prevailing legal uncertainty in the present cases. There is therefore reason to require that all cases be investigated, that is to say that the cases of those who are awaiting punishment should be gone through and, for example, investigations made into whether they have received fair trials. Therefore, a moratorium is necessary in all cases, even those that are not mentioned in the resolution.We are also given hope by the fact that the issue of the death penalty in the United States has been given a completely new political importance. I also value the work that the human rights organisations have done to bring this issue to the fore.IN THE CHAIR: MR COLOM I NAVALVice-President
Mr President, I should like to table an oral amendment to the effect that the last sentence of paragraph 120 should be changed, because the situation has meanwhile changed. It should read as follows: starting with complete freedom of movement. Freedom of expression and religion on the part of the Venerable Thich Quang Do – I hope I have pronounced this correctly – released in June 2003 but still subject to police control, and the reinstatement of the legal status of the banned United Buddhist Church.
It is my pleasure to explain why I voted for the Ebner report, given the far-reaching significance of promoting, respecting and also, where necessary, protecting the languages which enrich the European Union’s cultural and linguistic heritage and which ought to bring to life the motto of the draft Constitution for Europe, ‘United in diversity’. Moreover, those languages are the central nucleus of the linguistic and cultural rights recognised by that draft Constitution and also by the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union.With that in mind, I want to draw attention in particular to the need to add the official languages of the Member States to the list of official languages of the Union. An example from within the Spanish state is Catalan, a language spoken in an area containing ten million inhabitants, and recognised by Parliament, in the Reding report, as deserving special treatment given its importance and standing at the heart of the European Union.It is a sad fact that successive Spanish Governments have failed to champion the official languages recognised by the relevant Statutes of Autonomy, earmarking for development the principles and rights of the Spanish Constitution itself. For that reason, it is very important that it should be the European Union that recognises and protects these languages, over and above the positions of governments.(Explanation of vote abbreviated in accordance with Rule 137(1) of the Rules of Procedure)
Mr President, my group deplores the way this matter has been handled in the last few weeks. Both the vote in the Citizens' Rights Committee and the rapporteurs have been pushed aside and there has been a cosy stitch-up between the Presidency and the leadership of the two big groups.My group will uphold the committee agreement by voting for an opt-out system on directories to be possible. We will seek to take out the bureaucratic limitation that direct marketing e-mails can only be for products similar to those previously bought. But our main concern is the attempt by the Council and the big groups to confer broad powers to require telecommunications companies and Internet service providers to keep data which map people's daily lives and contacts, that is traffic, billing, location data and so on for possible access by law enforcement agencies.We do not disregard the case for some data retention for security practices, but we oppose its insertion in this directive because the huge implications both for industry and civil liberties are not adequately addressed in this context. It is dangerous and premature, and surely of doubtful legality as Mr Cappato said, to endorse a blanket EU regime of data retention as an add-on to a telecommunications single market package. Any imposition of these powers should be debated at national parliament level and then addressed in the context of EU cooperation on policing and crime-fighting, including guarantees for citizens' rights.This measure today, being an internal market directive, is part of the package designed to open up the EU market to competition and enable telecoms and ISPs to operate on a level playing field. That is why the original Commission proposal did not contain any reference at all to data retention, which was added by the Council. I would be interested to hear the Commissioner's response on that. We need a proper and extensive public debate. Slipping through these huge powers in the slipstream of a liberalisation measure is quite inappropriate.
Mr President, this is the first time that we have received a report that pertains to a period for which the Prodi Commission is entirely responsible. Can we draw clear conclusions from it? No, not really. That is why my group hopes that the discharge procedure will eventually give us the answer to the following questions: which countries cause most problems, which areas of policy are most problematic and what can be done about this, where does the Commission carry out its tasks and where does it fail to do so, but also where have improvements been made and where has that not been the case? We can already detect some improvement. That is partly thanks to the commitment by this European Parliament, but also the Court of Auditors, for which we are very grateful. However, this is still not enough. Moreover, it is still not possible to issue a general Statement of Assurance, and the budget surplus is currently at an all-time high. Progress has thus been made in small ways, but that is not enough to really gain the confidence of the people in Europe. In the final analysis, that is what we all need to work towards.
Madam President, Mr McCartin has drawn up an excellent report on matters that Parliament focused its attention on when it granted discharge for 2000. I wish to express my sincerest thanks for that.The way the EU budget is implemented is still unsatisfactory. This is particularly true of the way the Structural Funds programmes are implemented, which does not meet the requirements of good administration any more than it does the expectations of the public. The situation only got worse from 2000 to 2001 and the trend continued into 2002. In 2000, EUR 6.5 billion in Structural Funds appropriations remained unspent, in 2001 the figure was 10.5 billion, and last year it was 8.1 billion. The amount in unpaid commitments in respect of the Structural Funds has grown to EUR 66.7 billion, which is the equivalent of the budget for two years. The situation is very alarming.The Commission has been totally incapable of improving its administration: indeed, the situation is entirely beyond remedy. The EU’s structural policy has to be thoroughly reviewed; this programming period threatens to be a real catastrophe.The review of staff regulations that began in 2000 and is still going on is one of the most important of the reforms. In the opinion of my group it is important that the staff regulations should support the key objectives of administrative reform: improved efficiency, clarification of staff responsibilities with increased accountability, and the downward delegation of power. It must be the obligation of every official to apply the whistle blowing procedure where necessary. On the other hand, everyone must also be accountable for his or her actions in the sense that people must face the consequences of making groundless personal accusations. The European Union must not become a place of espionage.There must be a more natural and swifter way to claw back EU funds paid out for no good reason. The present system is unwieldy and arbitrary, as is shown in the report by Jan Mulder, which we are to discuss next. Unfortunately, the Member States and the Commission are often on opposite sides of the negotiating table, even though they should really be on the same side.I think the practice initiated by Mr McCartin of providing yearly follow-up with regard to the reports on discharge is appropriate, because it brings a long-term quality to Parliament’s monitoring of the Commission.
Mr President, I cannot deny that this issue is extremely tricky for the. The problem of phthalates in children’s toys is receiving wide public attention and the campaign which focuses on this problem, largely in the hands of Greenpeace, can be termed extremely successful. This is only natural and right, of course, because children are helpless and are entitled to protection.We know that phthalates in animal trials – in itself not a very pleasant thought – proved harmful, and we can therefore assume that they will be harmful to people, too. But we do not know to what extent they would be harmful, or in what dosage. Neither do we know for which application they are harmful or whether there are alternatives, and how harmful these would be and in what form.As there is no usable test, the question arises as to the basis on which we pursue our policy? As far as this is concerned, we cannot shake off the impression that this decision is premature in a way. But anyway, it is now before us. Phthalates are intended to soften PVC toys, but the substances leach out, certainly if the toys are chewed, as they in fact are by small children, of course. As far as we know, not many alternatives appear viable either.We value the assertive course which our rapporteur has taken and we therefore back the thrust of his proposal, that is to say we endorse a ban on this type of toy for children under the age of three, provided it is extensive. If we go for this option, then we should at least be consistent. In our view, therefore, this ban should apply to all toys, not just those intended for sucking and chewing.We also believe that we should look into toys for older children, although we should still have this option available once the test methods are there. I am interested to see what the European Commission’s opinion would be on this. What do you think of these test methods and what is your view on revising these regulations once they are there?We are in favour of a ban on the six tested phthalates, but are as yet unable to ban all the other phthalates and softeners, which may indeed be harmful. This may well be possible at the time when we have more data available that demonstrates that they are actually harmful. We have insufficient data available at this stage to establish this.On a final note, how far do we take the precautionary principle at the end of the day? As far as we are concerned, the principle should not mean that we simply reject everything we are not completely sure about at the moment.
Mr President, on the basis of previous information I had written that there was still 13 000 tonnes on board the wreck. Yesterday I spoke to the people who are trying to bring this oil up to the surface, and they told me that there was still 14 000 tonnes in the wreck. I would therefore like to amend these two figures.(Parliament adopted the resolution)***President.  That concludes the vote.EXPLANATIONS OF VOTE- Report dell'Alba (A5-0283/2003)
Commissioner Bolkestein, women are not very patient but I will try to be patient and wait for you to come up with proposals which, hopefully, will balance all the interests you have mentioned. I look forward to a thorough discussion and cooperation.
Mr President, in its proposal, the Commission has tried to reform the pharmaceutical industry, or at least has tried to make a start on it. In the pharmaceutical industry, Europe is losing out to the United States. It is not for nothing that an increasing number of companies have decided to carry out their practical research and development in the United States. European legislation is too opaque, which dampens the companies' motivation to carry out their activities in Europe, and in order to counter this, better European coordination in this field is therefore necessary as a matter of priority. I am greatly in favour of opening up this fossilised market. We must therefore strive for more competition within the European market, and one of the ways of achieving this is, for example, by making generic medicines available sooner, something on which a sound compromise has been reached within the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy.Furthermore, I would insist on the centralised procedure, which is carried out by the Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products in London, being reinforced so as to guarantee the equal treatment of all pharmaceutical companies and to give patients throughout Europe access to the same medicines. This centralised method also promotes all the objectives pursued by the Commission, such as a high level of health care, completion of the internal market, more transparency, improvement of competition and preparation for enlargement.I also set great store by the provision of information. It remains a mystery to me why the pharmaceutical industry is not allowed to inform patients about its products. I have said it before, but I should like to repeat it here: the European Union has thus been taken over by events and is discriminating against patients. At the moment, information of this kind is only available to people with a command of English and with access to the Internet, as this information is available in the United States. Patients who have no access to these resources are kept in the dark by Europe, and it is for this reason too that I think that the Commission's proposal to come up with a trial project is sound and is in any case a good first step. I do believe that by only making information on asthma, AIDS and diabetes available, patients suffering from other diseases are discriminated against, and I would call for this list to be extended.Finally, I should like to remark that the reinforcement of the role of patient organisations in this context is of course important at European level as well, including with a view to enlargement and to this centralised procedure. The Group of thehas tabled amendments to this effect, which I should like to endorse.
Mr President, since the breaking up of the tanker Erika, a package of measures has been devised, under political pressure, with a view to improving the safety of ships at sea. Of course, the key question is will these measures actually lead to sub-standard ships being taken out of service? I am not so sure. Although it pains me to say it, the fact is that we are tinkering about at the edges with these measures, rather than tackling the real root causes of the problems. Mrs Peijs and I have carried out a short investigation, and I would very much like to hear the Commissioner’s response to the following question. Can you tell me what became of the 750 ships that Honduras removed from its register? Were they really taken out of service? And where are they in that case?Secondly, is it true that in Cambodia, ships can be registered within twenty minutes via the Internet? Thirdly, I feel that a tough line must be taken with the classification societies. They are given too much free rein at present. I have tried to incorporate an incentive to take responsibility by raising the limited liability, which involves relatively small sums, but there is often nothing to be gained. But I have opposed the idea of unlimited liability because this impedes the market and is counterproductive.What is the situation with regard to the port state control? Commissioner, the current rules are not being properly adhered to as it is, never mind new ones. The Member States are simply not prepared to release enough money. There is a lot of talk but little action. As I see it, the Council must show greater commitment to making more resources available and exacting better sanctions.Then there is the matter of how to deal with flags of convenience. I have quite a list. I will vote in favour of the rapporteur’s proposal that ships which fly a blacklisted flag for three years in succession should be excluded, thereby sending out a signal to these flag ships that sub-standard controls will not pass muster in Europe. We do not want them in our ports or in our waters.In short, measures are an informal way of trying to bring safety to the desired standard. That is bad for the people, the sea, the environment and for the sector’s image. There should be more cooperation within the sector. I therefore support the initiatives for a European maritime platform.
Mr President, imagine, colleagues, that you are an intelligent and sensible person, you are on holiday in another EU country with your elderly and frail mother, you both end up being trapped for over half a day in an airless room by total strangers, offered little or no refreshment and, because there is a large gentleman blocking the door you feel your exit is cut off, so you end up signing a contract and paying a deposit for a timeshare product that you do not want. You return home to find that you have waved goodbye to the deposit of several thousand pounds and the company you dealt with is a worthless shell, constituted in some offshore haven. You have no chance of redress. Yes, this is a true story. How many of us have heard hapless tales like this from our constituents, despite the existence of a timeshare directive?This report is timely. Its contents need to be acted on now, not delayed for further studies and reports.But let me sound a note of caution. Whilst it will have the support of the, I am not totally convinced that this raft of rather complex and different legislative and non-legislative initiatives will answer the problem. The simple problem, to my mind, is this: these timeshare scams are one of the most appalling signals that we do not have, that we have not created a single European area of justice. Cross-border access to justice within the internal market is still fraught with many barriers for our citizens. Few, if any, of these scams are perpetrated against citizens in their own Member States. These rogues are only too easily able to profit from the lack of a single European civil area of justice. If they knew they would be pursued in their own countries they would think twice.I commend paragraph 15 of the report as a good starting point for bringing these contracts within the definition of consumer contracts. It is this sort of horizontal approach that will eventually provide the answer. If we have proper cross-border access to justice then the timeshare scam bandits will think twice before they prey on our holidaying constituents.
Mr President, the Laeken declaration set the scene for a broad public discussion about the future of Europe. That is a good thing. What is not, however, good enough is that three men are being employed to head up this work. Experience all goes to show that the composition of the Convention will also be one-sided. The Laeken declaration states, moreover, that deputies may only be allowed to step in if the right member is absent. Yet deputising is one of the classic opportunities women have for obtaining any kind of representation when it comes to this type of work. I must therefore call upon the Belgian and Spanish Presidencies to arrange matters in such a way that it is permitted to call in deputies and – rather more ambitiously – call upon them to arrange for everyone to be represented by a deputy of the opposite sex.
Mr President, I have noticed with some degree of satisfaction that the subversive action staged by some of the Members with a view to sabotaging procedures has ground to a halt. This will probably be because they have come to realise that they cannot count on the support of at least 32 delegates. I would just like to say, Mr President, that some strange selectivity is being practised here, that certain Members stage little acts and, after the act is finished, they leave and the game is over. I did want to point this out because Parliament should not be mistaken for a kindergarten, and this is the feeling I will have when I leave this Chamber today.
Mr President, it is quite incredible to stand in this Chamber – I can hardly call it an Assembly right now – and realise that we, in fact, have an on-going slave trade in the European Union, too – here, where we commend ourselves for creating peace, freedom, democracy and human rights. It is a serious matter that we should have this type of trade, because it is often not even adult women who are affected but near-children and very, very young people. This trade is very closely linked to drugs and money laundering. Presumably, it is different types of mafia which control it.This report is very good. Like the previous speaker, I want to emphasise that we need to see action taken and that police cooperation needs to be developed and more information made available. I am often sceptical about the very large demands, for example with regard to the environment, which are being made of the candidate States. At the same time, I think it would be reasonable to demand that information be provided to the countries’ own citizens, with other information being directed specially at young women. This measure would not, in fact, require large resources, and it is entirely feasible to implement it. I can therefore only appeal to everyone to vote in favour of the report and to go home and work on their own governments, organisations and the media, too.
Mr President, could you please check whether Amendment No 2 of theon the resolution on foot-and-mouth disease has actually been voted on? I myself have my doubts. Could you also inform me of what would happen if that appeared not to be the case? I can in any event assure you that this amendment still reflects the’s position, and perhaps you could record this as such in the declaration of vote. However, I have the strong suspicion that this amendment was not voted on at all.- Piecyk Report (A5-0111/2001)
Mr President, should I be unable to speak about the content, I would only say that the previous remark from theside of the House is complete baloney.
Madam President, the IGC should prepare the EU for the reorganisation needed to bring about the complete process of enlargement that is in hand. The most important consideration regarding enlargement in the Dimitrakopoulos/Leinen report is increased flexibility. Only differentiation within the EU can create the preconditions necessary for enlargement on such a massive scale.It is important that the report proposes that closer cooperation should be facilitated. The Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party has recommended that the principle of flexibility should also be realised in the form of greater scope for cooperation for those countries that cannot or do not want to accept the Union’s statutes in their entirety. This would facilitate and speed up enlargement of the Union.In making its review the Group of the Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party states that flexibility might lead to a larger concentric Europe, composed of a federal core and a less integrated outer circle. At this stage it is not necessary to adopt a precise position on how the Union should be differentiated. It is enough for now that we create an institutional framework in which it is possible to deepen and expand the Union in practical terms. I hope that Amendment No 154, which the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party has tabled regarding increased flexibility, will be adopted.
Madam President, I too should like to express my condolences with Spain. It is difficult after such an incident to return to business as usual, but we have to do this all the same.I have listened to a number of fellow Members here, and they assume that the proposal is an improvement on the current situation. What is certain is that this is a very complex issue. I have also listened carefully to Mr Solbes, who particularly envisages an improvement for people who are disabled or partially disabled. I share Mrs Smet's view that there will be problems that will need to be overcome in more than one country. I am not familiar with the situation in all of them, Commissioner, but as far as the Netherlands is concerned, I can tell you that the situation is deteriorating for people who are unable to participate in the labour market, those who probably never have been and never will be again. In their case, it is true that they are not entitled to contribution-based benefits, but this right should nevertheless be exportable, in my view.To those fellow MEPs who take the view that the discussion should be reduced to contributory versus non-contributory entitlements, I should like to press home the fact that there is also such a thing as social justice. I cannot see a need for housing costs to be exportable to another country, because these are related to the duration of housing. However, this specific case is about people, including people in the Netherlands, who are unlikely to ever be able to enter the labour market again. I would ask you to consider seriously whether other rules should not apply here. We wax lyrical about the free movement of persons, while at this moment in time, 1 300 people from the Netherlands live elsewhere in Europe and will lose the benefit they are currently drawing. I will therefore examine which premiums or proposals will receive my backing in order to haul in as much as we can, but I hope you will allow me to ask the fellow members and the Commission to consider this very carefully.Commissioner, I am very anxious about the future of Regulation No 1408/71. Can a committee be set up to examine carefully what the restrictions are? The fact is that, as a result of enlargement, major debates on the exportability of social security are anticipated right across Europe. I would urge you to set up a committee which follows all the problems, looks for solutions and also consults with the Member States in earnest in order to eliminate injustices of this kind in one way or another. I am not saying that this is the answer to all our problems, but I think that the derogation that the Netherlands has requested affects the weakest and least protected. The benefit in question will be exported to third countries, but on the basis of Regulation No 1408/71, it will no longer be exported within Europe, and that is a huge injustice.
Various Dutch fellow MEPs have made statements in the media to the effect that therefuses to prescribe ethical limits for scientific research. Our voting behaviour has proved that this is nonsense.First of all, adopted Amendment No 41 has a liberal pedigree. It demands that both during the implementation of the programme and for the results, the ethical basic principles, such as protection of human dignity, data and privacy are adhered to. Additionally, with regard to stem cell research, the guidelines drawn up by the ESF ethical committee must be observed.Furthermore, our group wanted to adopt Amendment No 22 of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, which prevents funding being channelled into research activity aiming at human cloning for reproductive purposes, the creation of embryos for research purposes and eugenic modifications in the genetic heritage.Unfortunately, the restrictive text of Amendment No 322 has been adopted in which therapeutic cloning has been ruled out. We regret this, precisely because therapeutic cloning offers genuine opportunities for patients suffering from Alzheimer’s, Parkinson’s, AIDS or diabetes. We have therefore abstained from the final vote.Report Caudron (A5-0355/2001):
Mr President, I would like to thank the minister for his explanation. The Council meeting naturally took place at a time when rumours and speculation about SARS were taking on huge proportions. The risk of confusion and misunderstandings about this highly infectious disease is therefore also increasing at an alarming rate. At the moment, however, we are still seeing different Member States giving conflicting travel advice about the so-called infected areas. It is the European Union’s duty to try to avoid this kind of confusion and misunderstandings. My country, for example, only issues negative travel advice on Beijing, Hong Kong and the Guangdong province. Other Member States are doing so for all infected areas. Why is there no clear European line on this point? The European Union, not only the Member States, should be taking action in this regard. That is not enough, however. SARS is pre-eminently a problem that does not respect national borders, and reminds us that problems such as these may also arise with other infectious diseases. When we see how quickly SARS has spread – perhaps not yet in Europe but certainly elsewhere – we must learn lessons from this, and not only now in respect of SARS.The Council of 6 May called on the Commission to continue to coordinate the EU’s action in respect of SARS and to consider developing a plan concerning a general preparedness for transmittable diseases and public health threats. The European Centre has once again been mentioned. Perhaps this is enough at this point. Perhaps SARS is indeed something that has not spread so far that more stringent measures are needed.What would we have done, however, if something like this had got out of hand? That might have happened. That could already have happened. Take the situation in Toronto – hardly a developing country, but a city with top-quality medical facilities that was suddenly gripped by SARS. That could have happened to us. What would we have done? Would we have asked the European Commission to do some consulting and coordinating? Would we have convened a meeting to see what we could do about it? No, what is lacking is the possibility of the European Commission implementing crisis management measures at such a time. I think that the European Commission should develop an emergency plan for this kind of situation, a plan which enables us to take concrete action in response to emergencies and then take measures such as those our American and Canadian colleagues are taking: quarantining people suspected of having the infection, providing additional funds for preventing the spread of the virus and support for people who are in voluntary or enforced quarantine.The problems are broader than this. It is not just about SARS. Commissioner Byrne informed Parliament on 7 April about the possibility that the SARS virus was transferred to humans from animals. Take the Hong Kong flu last century, the Spanish flu last century, viruses that mutate, the fowl pest in the Netherlands at the moment, about which the World Health Organisation has expressed its concern. What should we do about these?The European Commission needs to be able to implement practical crisis-management measures quickly for these kinds of situations in particular. I also welcome what the minister has said about this. The role of public health in the Treaty really must be laid down and reinforced now.
Mr President, the Commissioner has been very elaborate in his answer, but he has avoided answering one essential question. Under heading 1a in the 2003 and 2004 budgets this Parliament and the Council have twice provided for extra funds to be set aside for research into better vaccines and testing methods. The Commission was at liberty to decline that wish of Parliament.In the light of present developments, is the Commission prepared to investigate the possibility of using funds from heading 1a for research into vaccines and testing methods and inform this House as soon as possible of the outcome of these deliberations? It is urgent that we do something, and the Commission should not ignore the resolutions of this Parliament in this respect, nor the budget itself.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when I took on the task of being the rapporteur for this report, I was extremely well aware of the fact that it would not be an easy one. That is why I have applied a large number of tests that, in my opinion, should be applied in such a difficult situation. For example, at the beginning of this year we organised a hearing at which many experts spoke and gave their views on freedom of expression and protecting pluralism. In addition, the European Institute for the Media in Düsseldorf, a highly renowned institute, has been asked to carry out an investigation in all the countries in Europe. In my opinion, an investigation that should, in fact, have been carried out by the Commission long ago. This research will soon be available to the Commission. I have spoken to a very great number of experts and all of them, whether they represented journalists, public media or commercial media, expressed their appreciation for my recommendations. I have also drawn up a series of recommendations to promote pluralism in Europe. One of these recommendations concerns the defining of minimum conditions throughout the European Union to make sure that public broadcasters are independent and free from interference by government, as recommended by the Council of Europe. Other recommendations relate to rules on transparency and ownership of the media, especially ownership across borders, and the publishing of information about substantial interests in media. I am also requesting research into the need to include a pluralism test in the concentration regulation and the lowering of thresholds with respect to media concentrations, and also into the need to include regulations on these matters in the national rules. I am not going to sum up all my recommendations here. I only know that very many people in Europe are waiting for an update to the Green Paper from the Commission and for proposals to interpret more clearly its role with respect to freedom of expression.It is extremely important in a democracy that pluralism be respected. Based on all the talks I have had and also based on the report of the Institute for the Media, I have expressed a number of concerns and one of these concerns did indeed relate to Italy. After all, this was in the terms of reference for this report and I did not make up these terms of reference myself, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen. This assignment with this title was given to me by the Conference of Presidents. It was my duty, therefore, based on an application and based on the request of the Conference of Presidents, to pay particular attention to Italy. Many of my colleagues reinforced the attention that I had given to Italy myself even further.Are matters raised in this report which should not have been? Mr President, I do not think so. Facts are presented, based on which we say to the Commission: do you not have a moral duty to develop policy on pluralism in the media? I think that the Commission does have this duty. I also noted from the advice I have taken that, when it comes to pluralism, we need to set higher standards for public media than commercial media. As rapporteur, I am very well aware that the market does its job and in general I have no objection to that.The question it comes down to is whether pluralism is under threat from concentrations or any other threat, because certain media are over-concentrated in one hand. That is not new, Commissioner. We do this in all kinds of policy areas. It is one of our tasks as an internal market to watch that over-large concentrations do not develop. All I am asking is that freedom of expression be guaranteed, in the interests of a sound democracy. I think it is a great pity that some members, who have not been involved in the debate from the outset, have now suddenly submitted large numbers of amendments to bring this report down. I do not think this report deserves that, I did not expect it and I also think it is undemocratic.
Mr President, the death penalty is in fact a repugnant relic of a vanished age. It is founded upon an Old Testament “eye for an eye, tooth for a tooth” mindset which is not worthy of humanity now that we are approaching a new millennium. The Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party has played a forceful role in the fight against the death penalty. In one after another of the applicant States, it is either in the process of being, or already has been, abolished, which is a very positive development. In spite of that, the death penalty is still applied in all too many States. Only last year, 1,625 prisoners in 37 different countries were executed, and there are thousands on death row. In the United States alone, several thousand people are waiting to be executed.Some of the prisoners condemned to death throughout the world have committed odious crimes, but that does not justify their being executed. All too often, the death penalty is used for political purposes, and there can be legal confusion and innocent people can be executed. That alone is an argument against this barbaric form of punishment. Nor does the death penalty have any proven deterrent effect.The resolution we are debating is really quite remarkable. It names three citizens who, over the next few days, are to be executed in the United States. Obviously, we are urging the American government not to carry out these death sentences. But what the resolution really ought to be concerned with – a subject which my colleagues too have taken up – is the memorandum concerning the death penalty throughout the world. The Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party wholeheartedly supports this memorandum, which the UN has initiated. We would encourage the Commission and the Council to pursue this issue vigorously and to unite the European Union in unanimously condemning the death penalty in every forum so as to give rise to a worldwide moratorium on its use. The abolition of the death penalty would be a fantastic step forward in the fight for human rights and also a big step forward for the recognition of human dignity.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there is very little ‘prestige’ here, quite the contrary. What has happened off the Galician coasts with this peculiar oil tanker, originating from a tax haven, with a flag of convenience and furthermore, in unfair competition and trading oil in a very strange way, cannot and must not happen again in any of the seas of the planet. It is clear that we must be increasingly demanding in terms of safety in transport, especially in the transport of dangerous goods and at sea.In our case, we must adopt appropriate measures so that there is no repetition of disasters such as the one that has taken place with this dreadful oil slick, the significant ecological impact of which should oblige us Members of this Parliament to reflect.It begs the question, how many more oil tankers do we have to endure? Has account been taken of the negative impact of this ecological disaster on fishing, on nature, on tourism, on the society in this Galicia Finisterre? Until when? It depends on us, but we must speed up and review the measures adopted in the Erika case – as the Commissioner has just rightly pointed out.Finally, I would like once again to express our solidarity with the Galicians and I hope the European Union demonstrates that same solidarity through its actions.
Mr President, President-in-Office, at the beginning of the last century, a disgruntled writer from Dublin went to live in Italy. He wrote a famous novel in Trieste, a city that some years after his death came to mark the southern end of a line which divided our continent for half a century. This year, under this Irish presidency, that line will finally be erased. History, as Stephen Daedelus reminded us in James Joyce's Ulysses, is a nightmare from which we are trying to awake.The Irish presidency is right to focus on enlargement. It is an historic moment: the final act of the revolutions of 1989. It is appropriate that a country which speaks for the transformative power of the European Union should oversee that process. But we should not be tempted to believe that we can separate enlargement from agreement on the instrument designed to make that step possible. Integrating the new Member States into the Lisbon process and Schengen cannot hide the fact that without the additional framework of a new constitutional settlement we are simply changing the oil in a Union which needs a new engine. Liberals in this House welcome the Taoiseach's strong commitment to advancing the work of the IGC. December's tempers have cooled. Europe's destiny is in an altogether safer pair of hands. This time, Europe's leaders must choose to succeed.My Group also welcomes the presidency's intention to sustain the momentum of enlargement by concluding accession talks with Romania and Bulgaria and by responding to the request from Croatia. We, too, see this as the moment to achieve an historic settlement with Cyprus.The presidency also rightly focuses, too, on the Lisbon Agenda in what can only be called its hour of need. Most of the structural problems identified at Lisbon remain obstacles to wealth creation. The political will needed to undertake reform and give the eurozone credibility has not yet clearly been summoned. The Celtic tiger has long stood for the benefits of competitiveness and economic discipline. Now it is time for you to roar in the Council. We welcome the commitments on the Framework Directive on Services, published by the Commission yesterday, and on the Financial Services Action Plan. We welcome the commitment to work with the European Parliament to secure the adoption of the Trans-European Networks proposals. But your modesty about what you can achieve must not obscure the need to resurrect the Growth and Stability Pact in some form under this presidency.The presidency's assessment of our agenda abroad is also sound. We welcome the focus on African issues, on the holocaust of AIDS and poverty and hunger. We accept the need to work constructively with Russia, although we expect hard words on Chechnya and on Russia's vanishing political pluralism. We welcome the attempts to rebuild bridges in our transatlantic friendships. But here the Council's loyalty to European values means that Guantanamo Bay must be on the agenda of the EU-US Summit. The EU must act together to demand conscionable treatment for all detainees in Camp Delta, including the Europeans who have now been held for two years without charge. I welcome, Mr President-in-Office, your commitment to review justice and home affairs in the Union. I hope you will not overlook the worrying Amnesty International report on human rights within some of our own member countries.My Group welcomes the presidency's political commitment to take the Statute for Members forward. That commitment must now be carried through into reform by both Parliament and the Council so that the statute can enter into force after the elections.Mr President-in-Office, your work programme is a worthy one. If my Group could offer you a slogan for it, it would be 'restoring belief'. Deliver a deal on the Constitution and see in enlargement and you will have done Europe, and Ireland, proud. Carry that spirit through to the European elections in June, to a pan-European campaign with a continental consciousness rather than 25 national campaigns, and history will give you rich reward.(Applause)
Mr President, having heard the interventions of Mr Jové and Mr Fischler, I believe I should change the form of my intervention and go straight to what I believe is the crux of the matter.The Commission’s main argument is that which was agreed ten years ago. That is to say, ten years ago there were certain conditions, we established a programme and it has come to an end. I believe that it is precisely the change in conditions compared to ten years ago which weakens the Commission’s position, and it is therefore important for them to be sensitive to an agreement which originates from the action of certain MEPs from the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the European Parliament at the moment.In my opinion, there have been three changes. Firstly, the competition conditions have changed. They are not the same as ten years ago. Secondly, according to the assessment of the agricultural sector, and this one in particular, it should be pointed out that there is much greater sensitivity towards environmental responsibility than there was ten years ago. It is an economic sector, I agree, but it has much greater environmental responsibility than it did ten years ago. Thirdly, if this aid is removed today, the loss of the land recovered over these ten years would be irreversible.I therefore sincerely believe that there is no margin, either within the framework of rural development or in other areas, because we are not talking about vegetables, we are not talking about any other type of product, we are talking about a very specific product, with very specific circumstances, which were analysed ten years ago and which must be analysed today once again.For this reason, I believe that it makes absolute sense to carry out a study of a new framework of aid and, in any event, there should be an extension with immediate effect.
Mr President, I wish to begin by apologising for failing to present a consistent report. This report might be my last in this Parliament and, Commissioner, I am not proud of the result.(SV) Mr President, the postal market is in the process of being liberalised at European level and also at national level. As Commissioner Bolkestein has said, the current situation has led to an uneven playing field. Public operators have a competitive advantage over those customers who are not able to claim back VAT, such as private individuals, charities and banks. Private operators are more attractive to VAT-registered companies, although the overall price may be higher, as the customer can reclaim the VAT, which generally results in a lower net cost to the business.A further disadvantage of the VAT exemption for public operators is that it favours self-supply. It is therefore more cost-effective for the operator to carry out a service itself than to use subcontractors.It is against this background that the Commission proposes that the exemption should be removed and that VAT should be charged at the standard rate for all items of mail over two kilos in weight. At the same time, the Member States must be given the option of applying a reduced rate of VAT to items of addressed mail weighing less than two kilos.I agree with the Commission’s assessment. As rapporteur, I also proposed only minor changes in the committee reading. All my proposals were voted down by the committee. In practice, the committee’s proposal means that the European Parliament must reject the Commission’s proposal in its entirety. I think that this would be unfortunate and, together with my colleague Mrs Lulling and the Group of the European People’s Party, I have therefore tabled a series of compromise proposals. Personally, I am not entirely delighted with all these amendments, but I can live with them. I also hope that Commissioner Bolkestein is able to live with them. The amendments are along the right lines and will mean the start of a more properly functioning market. The big changes we are now proposing are aimed, for example, at removing the two-kilo limit for the reduced rate of VAT. It also means clearer demands for a harmonised five to ten per cent VAT band.Allow me, in the first place, to address those fellow MEPs of mine, in particular the British ones, who have been concerned about price rises. As is well known, VAT can be applied and removed. The Commission estimates that the price of a first-class letter in the UK would, for example, increase by 0.3 euro cents in the case of VAT being applied at a reduced rate of 5% and by five euro cents in the case of VAT being applied at the standard rate of 17.5 per cent. It is worth noting that the UK mail regulator, Postcomm, has arrived at the same conclusion. Talk of price rises is seriously exaggerated.Certainly, postal services fulfil an important social function, but postage and related costs do, in spite of everything, represent only 0.1 to 0.2 per cent of the average household budget in the EU. The postal operator in my own country, Sweden, has noted that the annual average cost per household for letters and Christmas cards is SEK 190, or EUR 21. In the case of the UK, figures for 1996-1997 indicate that the average annual spend for a UK household was £ 29.40, or EUR 42. On the assumption that this was all spent on sending standard letters costing 28 pence, the impact on the household would be that the annual cost would increase by £ 1.05 to £ 30.45 if the national operator were to increase the postage by one penny. I think that this should be borne in mind during the vote tomorrow.Another sensitive subject is the impact on charities. Just like Commissioner Bolkestein, I think that this impact should be countered by the option of being able to claim back the VAT or by special tax rates.Finally, all those of you in this House who believe in a better, efficient market without obstacles and injustices cannot reject this proposal. I wish, in particular, to address Mrs Lulling and thank her. I wish to thank Mr Radwan, Mr Brunetta and Mr Karas. You have, in any case, helped to obtain some form of unity. Mrs Randzio-Plath and Mr Goebbels, who have such good judgment on so many other issues, I am relying upon your judgment tomorrow too. If nothing else, you could all listen to your own postal operators, or those that support the proposal.
Thank you, Commissioner, for your answer. I noted your saying it is important, partly in the interests of innovation, to consider relevant markets. We are now in a situation in which the software producers and a large part of the information society may be affected by this matter in the future.At what point does the Commissioner consider that a company may be in an especially dominant position? Will the Commission take account of those profit margins to which public reference is made, namely 85% for certain types of software? When might the Commission be expected to reach that decision on this issue which European consumers are really waiting for?
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express the’s support for the report by Mrs Cristina Gutiérrez-Cortines, which, as she herself mentioned in the introduction to her report, is not, and should not be, considered to be purely a formality, a summary of the application of the European Year of Learning in 1996, but rather as an analysis that serves to make a series of proposals on what the standing of education should be in its various fields, including the fields of lifelong learning and vocational and technical training, which deserve special attention.This coincides with the ideas expressed a few months ago at the Lisbon and Feira European Councils, when all the Member States pledged to develop a series of measures at European Union level so that, during this decade, the European Union can become a leading society at international level and achieve the levels of competence that North America has today, particularly in technological areas.To be precise, the key element in the process to achieve this level of competence lies in training, education and in a society with levels of excellence that lay the necessary foundations for progress to be made in the most technologically developed and advanced fields of scientific and technological innovation.The report by Mrs Cristina Gutiérrez-Cortines, and she has also mentioned this today, shows the imbalances that still exist in the field of education between the level of the European Union and national level, that is, on the one hand we want action in education at European Union level, but on the other, the Member States do not want to give up their competences and establish true cooperation on an educational level. It is true that there are some programmes that we always use as references, such as Socrates or Leonardo, but in precisely these programmes, we must recognise the lack of sufficient resources to achieve the scope and effect that we would like.Finally, I therefore recommend that you pay particular attention to points 16, 17, 18, 19, 23 and 24, which constitute a good guide for the achievement of these higher levels of education at European Union level.
Mr President, Commissioner, whenever a serious social problem occurs, it always has a political basis. This is true of the disgraceful events which have recently occurred in El Ejido. The proof of this lies in the fact that the groups in this House have reacted and tabled several motions for resolutions.We all regret the deaths which have occurred and the violent and disproportionate reactions against the immigrant workers. We all, I believe, agree in our condemnation of the xenophobia and racism which was apparent in certain actions. These events certainly have their origin in, among other factors, the absence of a clear immigration policy allowing the affected communities to live together respectfully and peacefully.We hope that the events in El Ejido will serve as a lesson to everyone and will not be repeated. Yet it is not enough to regret the situation. We do not want Africa to become our cross, in fact quite the contrary. We must therefore act. I should like to highlight certain measures which we are trying to introduce in another European region affected by immigration – the Canary Islands. Firstly we are creating a network of reception centres for minors. Secondly we are conducting a programme of social integration. Thirdly we are carrying out education programmes on tolerance and respect. Finally we are producing a census of immigrants. I hope that these measures will help towards ensuring compliance with the Tampere Agreements on immigration and the new Spanish Act on aliens. In particular they must ensure that people arriving in Europe do not lose their dignity.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I too wish to thank the rapporteur, Mr Bradbourn, on behalf of my group, for drafting this report so excellently and with such resolve. There is a vital need to reduce congestion and improve the freight transport system, especially from the point of view of the environment, as the volume of traffic grows. EU enlargement will also bring new challenges, when transportation routes get longer.Our group supports the Marco Polo programme and is satisfied with the Council’s common position. The EU can bring added value by supporting innovative and new technology projects. The aim must be to switch from the forms of transport that cause the most pollution to the other most environmentally friendly forms. No form of transport, however, should be excluded from the programme. A diverse range of transport should also be involved, and that could include road transport too.In my opinion, it is important that, along with the new actions, we are able to support the improvement of existing work. Improvements may often be achieved here through a more efficient cost-benefit ratio rather than by embarking on an entirely new project. By concentrating on just new projects the danger of competition distortions in relation to the old measures is an obvious one.It has been agreed in the common position that minimum thresholds should be halved regarding all categories of action. That would also enable the realisation of innovative projects jointly undertaken by smaller companies, such as SMEs.The programme’s budget is quite modest and the objective very ambitious. I think it is important, however, that the regulation is now approved and that the first projects are got under way by the autumn. In the longer term it is to be hoped that Marco Polo will prove worthwhile and acquire additional financing. In addition we have to explore opportunities to increase financing for important projects that supplement the trans-European transport network.
Mr President, I want to give a brief explanation of vote with regard to the Bourlanges report and in particular our vote on Doc. A5-30/99. In that document Mr Bourlanges sets out in paragraphs 7, 8 and 9 the reasoning behind the conclusion that Parliament does not approve the Council’s proposals. In particular, paragraph 8 was an important political signal to the Council.My own group, which is of divided opinion on the matter, has a minority who intended to vote against paragraph 8, and did so. However, I also led the majority of the group inadvertently into voting against paragraph 8 due to an incorrect voting indication.I wish to place on record for Mr Bourlanges and for the House that the majority of my group was disposed to vote for the strategy in paragraph 8. I should like that to be noted and duly recorded.
Today, in light of the growing threat from election results in favour of the far right in Europe, it is necessary, more than ever before, to show our determination to protect all the fundamental values and principles of our democratic system.Therefore, the representatives of democratic political groups have a duty to assert their commitment not to join together with a political coalition, nor with groups or parties which entertain ideologies or proposals that could undermine the democratic principles on which our political system is based.As part of the democratic debate and during election campaigns, we must also undertake to condemn any talk, any populist attitude that could artificially heighten the fears which bolster far-right groups.Furthermore, it is a good idea to make all the Members of our parties to sign a code of good conduct in order to define the attitude that they must adopt towards groups which place the democratic principles of our political system at risk.
Mr President, first I would like to state quite briefly that we are now dealing with such a colossal issue that nobody can afford to blame anyone in any event. We must no longer blame anyone else. Finland, Sweden and Austria did not blame anyone for BSE. We implemented certain action as long as ten or fifteen years ago, and, probably as a result of that, any risk that we might have BSE is perhaps diminished. We are not claiming that there is none, but we have implemented the action that everyone should now finally be implementing.Firstly, we should specifically ensure that each Member State genuinely complies with the decisions that have now been taken, for they are not being complied with in every Member State. For this reason, it is an excellent move on the part of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development to propose setting up a subcommittee to monitor food safety and, for example, the situation regarding BSE and other such problems, so that the dangers and risks that exist might be prevented in the future, especially when we take the matter of enlargement into consideration as that will involve some very large countries with livestock joining this Community.
Twenty million Afghans are being hit hard by bombings being carried out for reasons over which they have had no influence. The UN Commissioner for Human Rights has appealed for a necessary suspension of the bombing in order to get food out to the population before the winter. Three years of drought have made the supply situation untenable. I have therefore supported Amendments 2 and 3 in the vote on the resolution concerning the European Council’s informal meeting in Ghent. A further prerequisite, however, is that the Taliban should allow supplies to reach those who need them. We also appeal to Pakistan to allow the refugees to be afforded protection.– Poos Report (A5-0308/2001)
Over the past few days, Member of the Group of the, Alexander de Roo, has insinuated both in this House and in the media that the Liberal shadow rapporteur, Chris Davies, has changed his position under pressure from the Aznar Government in connection with the possible election of Pat Cox to President of Parliament.This was an absurd and unfounded allegation. Mr Davies has conscientiously attempted to reconcile his own dislike of the Spanish project (shared by myself) with the position of the majority of thethat it is inappropriate to criticise a specific country in a general report.Today’s vote illustrated that our group has abstained and that Mr Davis and various Green members of the  Group have voted in favour of the criticism levelled at Spain.However, by voting against the Liberal amendment (which, in turn, led to the rejection of the entire report), thehave missed a major opportunity of stopping the Spanish project on the basis of general principles. Although the intentions of the Group of themay have been noble, their method was neither effective nor conclusive. At the moment, the European Parliament does not have a single position in this weighty matter.Riis-Jørgensen report (A5-0373/2001)
The effects of constant announcements regarding the liberalisation of the gas and electricity markets that are not followed up with genuine results are a considerable handicap to European credibility with citizens. These liberalisations should be genuinely set in motion so that they are perceptible to households.Furthermore, based on the European ineffectiveness with regard to South Korea concerning unfair competition on the ship building market, we urgently need to implement the procedure for settling WTO disputes for the sector in question, also in order to open the way for the emergence of a competition policy at international level.
The Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party in the European Parliament has abstained from voting in favour of the overall report because we are unable to support Article 5(1) of the Commission’s proposal.
Mr President, I must not be especially critical, but try to look ahead to a future White Paper rather than discuss the rather odd draft Green Paper.Within the safe food sector, where most of my work is done, a ‘farm to fork’ principle, which is very effective when attempts are made to legislate and to try to see the connections, has now finally been arrived at following a host of scandals and disasters. I should like the White Paper to be based on approximately the same principle so that each product can be traced and seen in its context: finite or renewable raw materials, the supply of energy, what form of energy is used, chemicals, the flow chart for the product, logistics etc. This is especially important for very large volumes of products, consisting in actual fact of food, water and household chemicals. These account for more than half of the consignments transported on our roads and consume an incredible amount in terms of resources, despite our perhaps not even thinking of them as products. I am therefore looking for a strategy in which everything is traceable and in which we can track a product’s history, and for principles that are valid whether we are talking about a car or a packet of sausages for lunch.
Mr President, my fellow MEPs have presented a great deal of justified criticism concerning the procedures in relation to today’s programme. Allow me, however, to welcome the fact that a kind of evaluation from the year gone by is included and that there is more strategic thinking when it comes to the Commission’s intended way of working.Now let us talk about the future, however. President Prodi outlined, of course, how it will be possible in future to deal with the issue of the annual programme. As Parliament’s rapporteur, I have had the opportunity to monitor this matter for quite a long time. I hope we can conclude it soon and begin work on the programme for 2003.As the co-decision procedure has developed, Parliament and the Council, too, must also play a larger role in devising the annual programme. That does not mean that the Commission’s right of initiative is being questioned, but that all three institutions should be more in step in encouraging both openness and efficiency in our joint work. Moreover, it would then be easier for national parliaments and citizens to follow the process.Where the timetable is concerned, it looks as if we can now perhaps agree. There is an introductory presentation of the general priorities, followed by thorough discussions between the Commission and the committees concerned with a view to establishing the details. It is important for the parliamentary committees to be involved at an early stage because it is the committees which will then deal with the proposal. We can then present the definitive proposal by no later than the beginning of November.When it comes to the content of the programme, last year’s criticism does not mean that we do not want any legislative proposals. On the contrary, our common framework agreement states that what we are concerned with here is the annual legislative programme. Parliament has demanded clear proposals in order of precedence, explanatory statements with timetables, budget references, legal bases and information about who is responsible.Follow-up and evaluation must also be improved. As we have seen, a very great many proposals are being re-introduced, at the same time as other proposals are disappearing. It should be possible to set up a joint database to monitor the decision-making process for each topic.A process which is clear, open and predictable should benefit all the institutions and also the citizens we are here to serve. It is our joint responsibility to ensure that this happens.
Mr President, Commissioner, the consumption of vitamins and other food supplements by our society is a genuine trend rather than a fashion. The market that this generates is huge. The considerable lobbying that has been carried out on this issue is proof of this, if it were needed.Let us turn directly to the main question which is niggling a number of my fellow Members who oppose this directive and that is should we legislate? I have no hesitation in saying ‘no’ and I have at least three reasons for this.First of all, the proposal for a directive provides a specific response to a reality, namely the lack of an internal market, which has damaging repercussions both for the economic actors in this sector and for consumers. By way of example, it is currently virtually impossible for a vitamin manufacturer based in the UK to export and place his products on the market in Belgium or in France, for instance.Secondly, it is useful, even so, to recall the two major battles waged at first reading regarding the inclusion of substances with psychological effects – fibres and plant extracts, in particular – and the essential labelling standards to enable consumers to make an informed choice. Parliament made its view heard.I would add, and this is my third point, that no high-quality food supplement, regardless of its ingredients, will be banned under this directive. I stress the point that we must stop brandishing the prospect of bans and of a Europe that castrates. Manufacturers will have three and a half years, depending on our vote, to submit their dossier and prove that their products which are not currently listed in the Annex are safe, and if a ban has to be imposed eventually, it would therefore be placed on doubtful substances. Anyhow this is the least of our problems, as far as I am concerned.Since I am speaking of the purely health-related aspect of this matter, I would also like us to stop saying that vitamin abuse poses no danger. This is wrong, simply wrong! We must say that excessive consumption of all fat-soluble vitamins such as A, K, E and D are problematic, and, to give another example, excess vitamin A has known harmful teratogenic effects and can result in foetus malformation. We can allow political opposition to this directive therefore, but in no case can we allow scientific falsehoods to go unchallenged.To sum up, and for all the aforementioned reasons, we are dealing with flexible and balanced legislation which takes into account the interests of consumers, manufacturers and distributors and which lays a basis for the harmonisation that is necessary in this sector. The majority of my colleagues in the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party will vote in favour of this very good report by Mrs Müller and I too would like to congratulate her.(Applause)
Mr President, Commissioner, as has been said here, EU funds cannot replace Member States’ public expenditure and the structural aid that runs parallel with it. This principle of additionality is important to reduce regional disparities, which is the aim of the Union’s regional and structural policies. The Commission must oblige the Member States to work in such a way that the principle of additionality is implemented both nationally and regionally.I suspect that this principle is being seriously violated in the Member States. The effect of the Union’s regional policy is dramatically weakened by governments drastically reducing national, public and structural aid and subsidies, even in excess of what is coming into a region via Union funds. In some cases this violation is covered up by including as national regional funds development funds, which are mainly, however, targeted at the fastest growing areas. The regional failure to observe the principle of additionality aggravates the situation with regard to internal regional disparities within Member States, which runs counter to the aims of the Union’s regional policy.
Mr President, as the Commissioner rightly stated, the current bathing water directive, dating back to 1976, is out of date. It is an inflexible directive based on obsolete data. However, we have to admit that this old directive is popular among Europeans, and indeed, the Commissioner was right to point out that it has been successful.It is clearly thanks to this old directive that much of the bathing water that was polluted not so long ago is now much cleaner. The proposal for revision, submitted by the Commission, is more flexible; it takes the inflexibility out of the existing directive and is, as such, an improvement. Of the nineteen parameters that were required for measurement in the old directive, only two remain, which is actually adequate to achieve the result that is required.Since 1976, which is before the European Parliament was directly elected for the first time, our thinking about the environment, but also about issues such as subsidiarity, has, of course, fundamentally changed. We should, therefore, question whether the Union should, in fact, decide about what the quality of bathing water should be, whether Europe is better equipped than the Member States to do this, and whether there is a cross-border effect.During the initial discussion in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, I called these aspects into question and I have to say that the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy answered 'yes' to all of those questions and affirmed that it is necessary to uphold such a directive and to improve it. My own group does not agree with this and has therefore tabled an amendment. In any case, this forces us to revisit this question of subsidiarity. Moreover, the committee itself was also somewhat confused. After all, in the directive, reference is made to the interests of tourism, but this also touches upon an internal market directive, while surely, as everyone knows, we are dealing here with a directive that should actually protect public health. However, the legal basis of the directive is the environment. In short, there is confusion all round. In actual fact, I am wondering whether it is not simply the case that we are keeping this directive, not because of a need, but simply because it is there.The provision of information is crucial. There is no doubt in my mind too that here lies an essential European task, namely consumer protection and information which should be more easily accessible to bathers and users of bathing water. This can be done via the Internet, but I myself do not always have my laptop on the beach, so alternatives will need to be sought to make it obvious to bathers whether the water is clean or not. In this context, the system of smileys, for example, proposed in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, strikes me as excellent. It should be up-to-date information, that is, not last year's information, but current, weekly information, because this would actually be of some use to bathers.This information must be universally accessible. We could copy the example of the blue flag. Although this is not an EU initiative, it is nonetheless a well-known, popular and effective system. The drawback of the blue flag is that it is only introduced upon application and as such, cannot be found in bathing sites that have made the conscious decision not to apply for it. In addition, blue flags cost money.The question is whether the quality of bathing water will improve purely on the basis of this improved information. Take the blue flag as an example, and see how it upsets bathing sites when they lose their blue flag. Would this not have a better effect than tightening the standards all the time? The proposed higher standards are, in my view, rather open to question anyway. Both the EU's own scientific committee and the World Health Organisation take the view that it is, in fact, impossible to establish scientific standards at international level, given the huge national differences. As a result, the higher standards are somewhat questionable.Above all, I feel sorry for those governments who say that they are in favour of higher standards as long as they do not need to adhere to them. I understand that this is also an argument that is heard in different quarters in the Council. I think this is wrong. If they say that they want stricter standards, fine. But they should, of course, adhere to them too. Those stricter standards mean that, for example, in the United Kingdom, or in my own country, the Netherlands, 30% of the bathing water that is still considered good would then become 'bad'. What will the Commission do then? Will we be inundated with infringement proceedings? Will we be closing beaches? Are we not more likely to run the risk that such beaches will simply no longer be designated as bathing water, while people continue to swim in it?The public health effect is therefore not achieved by prescribing higher standards. As far as this is concerned, we would have also preferred a cost-benefit analysis by the Commission. Where, for example, are all those sick tourists now on which these higher standards are based? According to scientists, these sick tourists should be around, but we have not seen any of them, not even a glimpse. The question is whether we have found a solution to a problem or whether we have created a problem for a solution that was there all along. It remains, of course, to be seen whether the new Member States can meet these old standards, never mind the new ones.Finally, I should like to say that I am pleased with the compromise tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy. It leads to better information to bathers and to other recreational users, better bathing water quality and also to deregulation and simpler legislation. Together with the improvements introduced by the Commission, I think that, on balance, we will arrive at improved legislation after all, on the understanding, of course, that Europe should legislate in this area.
Mr President, I am pleased to announce that the’s vote is favourable to the reports by Mr Valdivielso and Mr Piétrasanta. However, I must admit that there are certain reservations in our group with regard to future budgetary proposals as a result of the difficulties which have arisen up until now in the employment of funds intended for the MEDA programme.However, this issue would lead us into a discussion of the budget, which is not the main subject of this debate. The main subject of this debate is political and the issue is the fact the Mediterranean is one of the essential elements in ensuring the peace, stability and progress of the European Union itself.Eliminating tension and promoting balanced development in the Mediterranean third countries leads to greater security, prosperity and prospects for the European Union. Therefore, Mediterranean policy must be a fundamental pillar of the Union’s external action, which will benefit the European Union itself.Furthermore, I believe that we must consider that officially, there are at least three Mediterranean candidate countries, and that, with regard to the conflicts which Mr Valdivielso has mentioned, the European Union has made a very significant contribution in recent years to solving them. We are very close to reaching peace agreements to solve them definitively and this obviously requires a significant economic contribution for which MEDA is the main financial instrument. The different aspects mentioned in each report must be taken into account because they make a wonderful contribution to achieving this.
Madam President, on a point of order. I wish to make three brief points. The first concerns the point of procedure addressed by Mr Oostlander, namely that various colleagues felt, because of the sensitivity of the issue in hand, that they should like to have in their own language, as is their right, the text of the report and all the amendments to it. This matter was signalled clearly at the Conference of Presidents last week – on more than one occasion, I understand. I myself was absent, but I have had this confirmed to me.In that case, when the sensitivity of the availability of documents was clearly signalled, why was it not prioritised by the services in such a way as to avoid this? That is my first question. Given the sensitivity, the Bureau, the House and the Conference of Presidents should be given a detailed account of this breakdown in the system.My second point is that Mr Oostlander is perfectly within his rights to say that, under Rule 115, proceeding with the debate or the vote can be questioned as the documentation was not available 24 hours in advance. He is perfectly correct to insist on the application of that rule, if he should so wish.It is my understanding that all the documents and amendments in all languages were finally available about 3 p.m. yesterday. I should like to have that confirmed. If that is true, I should then like to suggest that we change our order of business for today and, respecting the 24-hour deadline, I would ask the rapporteur, Mrs Buitenweg, to introduce her report at 3 p.m., followed by a debate, urgencies and then the vote, which would fully respect the 24-hour deadline.There is one point that, to many of us, is the issue of substance in this report. We have under the Treaties the power now to bring in new anti-discrimination legislation. Of all the areas of political sensitivity in contemporary Europe, that dealing with racism and xenophobia should be given the highest priority in this House. The Portuguese Presidency will organise a Social Affairs Council which we can engage with if we deliver a view. I appeal to the House to make creative use of the possibility open to us, in setting our agenda, to recognise this substantive political requirement and to facilitate a debate at 3 p.m. and a vote at 6 p.m. or thereafter this evening.(Applause)
Mr President, we know that Olivier Dupuis has been leading this particular struggle, a fact which has also been mentioned here before. I think he deserves a big thank-you for enabling this discussion to take place.I also think that, at the moment, things look very promising indeed in the UN General Assembly. There has been a lot of support from every country, and it has been easy to reach agreement within the Council on this point. Now that the fight is being carried on within the UN, we must beware of cunning counter-proposals which perhaps look innocent enough but which will come from various directions for the purpose of watering down any strong position adopted by the UN General Assembly. We therefore need to keep track of what is happening in the UN.At the same time, we need to ensure that there is strong support from Parliament for this action and that in the future, and in Geneva too, whenever questions affecting human rights come up, we get binding decisions adopted. We also need to ensure that we can follow up the present resolution, which I hope will be approved in New York this autumn.
Mr President, Commissioner Barnier, the clear message regarding change which the electorate sent out on 13 June is something which we EU politicians must take very seriously indeed. We must act in accordance with this message and work for change. The Intergovernmental Conference is one very good opportunity for doing just that.There is a lot to be inspired by in the Report of the Wise Men, and we ought to use the Intergovernmental Conference to carry out a proper examination of the Treaties. We need to simplify, open up, clarify and review all of the European Union’s tasks and bring about an order in which the EU concentrates on fewer things, that is to say the genuinely cross-border problems. The EU’s citizens need a democratic constitution which lists the powers that can be exercised, and in such a way that accountabilities are clear and that the principle of subsidiarity is of proper significance.With these ambitions on the eve of the Intergovernmental Conference, I believe that we can succeed in both of the EU’s major tasks: to create a larger Union which functions democratically and to win back some of the confidence our citizens have lost in the European Union, as well as the legitimacy they lent to the enterprise.
Mr President, I should like to repeat what I said on a previous occasion. One of the main objectives of the 2004 budget will be the smoothest possible integration of the new Member States. We shall therefore be spending the whole year working on a budget for probably 25 Member States and on this basis we shall be taking a political decision in December.In this report we speak of the position that Parliament must take in the conciliation procedure and a number of main subjects traditionally have a part to play in first reading conciliation. First of all we have agriculture. The margin of 1.4 billion currently calculated is positive, but all the items in the agriculture budget are based on a dollar-euro rate of 1.07. This is probably on the low side and so we are also looking to the letter of amendment at the end of October, which will also contain the conclusions of the agricultural negotiations in Luxembourg. What are the financial consequences of this rate?Apart from this point, Parliament has set a number of priorities for the agriculture budget in the form of pilot projects or preparatory actions. In the first place we think that, given the number of outbreaks of infectious animal diseases in the last ten years, there is a great burden on the agriculture budget. In future the agriculture budget will not have the margins that it has had in the past. We therefore think that very serious thought must be given to some form or other of insurance system against infectious animal diseases and some or other European animal disease fund will have to be created. We want to make a start on this.Secondly, future payments to farmers will be based not only on historical actions, but also on the environment, method, on cross-compliance: one good turn deserves another. All well and good, but these environmental indicators are not all that precise. Mrs Wallström has unfortunately disappeared, but there is much to say about the nitrate directive. Something has to be done about that.Other points that we consider important are the development of better vaccines against infectious animal diseases and a quality policy for agricultural products.As for fisheries, the most important point is that the Council, which regrettably is very sparingly present this evening, must as soon as possible take a position with regard to the financing of the reforms that were agreed in December of last year, in particular with regard to the scrapping fund that is mentioned therein. We think that in principle credits must be made available for this. Otherwise better control of the quota and more research into fish stocks are the main points for us.Common foreign and security policy. The Council promised to give Parliament information about this policy as of 15 June. This information had not arrived by the time of the printing of this resolution. I understand that it was handed over here just an hour ago. We shall be examining it closely. We think that we should be informed about everything, not only about the actions, but also about the budget of the European Parliament, as well as about the budgets of the Member States themselves. Both are communicating vessels and cannot be seen separately from one another.As regards the structural funds, we think that the N+2 rule must be applied. We also think it interesting to hear precisely what the estimates have been that are given to the Commission by the Member States each year so that the Commission can draft a good budget. It is always interesting to make this comparison. We should like to have this information from the Commission.Another important point for this budget: we want to promote economic development in the new Member States. We think that this can for example be done through the promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises and through investments in these new Member States. We are therefore expecting good cooperation with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development in London and with the European Investment Fund in Luxembourg. We shall be raising this as well.I do have a number of other points, Mr President, but since you, given the lateness of the hour, were so insistent that I keep to my time, this I shall do. Perhaps the position of the Parliament will emerge later in the resolution itself.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my group I should firstly like to thank all the rapporteurs involved in the railway package. They have done some excellent work.Development of the railways, however, was far too late in getting started. Now such areas as the promotion of competition in both freight and passenger transport services, increased interoperability and improvements in safety are huge challenges which really do require swift action to be taken. The competitiveness of the railways has seriously decreased. There has been a shift to transportation along congested roads as well as by air, because the railways have not been able to improve their services quickly enough.This railway package will enable us to promote the competitiveness of the European railways, and improved competitiveness will mean that companies and the public will have the chance to utilise a more environment-friendly form of transport. At the same time congestion can be relieved and short flights replaced by railway transport services, which will result in a better balance between transport operators. Development of the railways will also clear the way for increased use of intermodal transport, as at the same time attention will be paid to improved interoperability of the ports and railways.As shadow rapporteur, I have followed Mr Savary’s drafting of the report closely. Mr Savary has also done good work. A properly established Railway Agency would boost development of the railways and monitor and promote innovation and good practice. Our group believes, however, that the same principle should be followed regarding the composition of the Agency’s administrative board as that which applies to the Maritime Safety Agency. We have tabled an amendment on this for which we hope there is support.
Mr President, human rights are not something we have simply pulled out of the ether, nor have we taken them from party manifestos. They are universal, that is to say indivisible and independent of countries and parties. They are concerned not with opinions but with actions. They provide protection against injustice and discrimination. They should be clear and comprehensible and not consist of idle talk. We are to build upon firm ground when we talk of human rights, and we should therefore especially build upon those conventions to which the countries concerned have acceded and upon the legal practice which the Council of Europe’s Court of Human Rights has developed in such a distinguished way since the Second World War. The EU should not be changing or reinventing things. Instead, the EU should have the status of a legal person, it should accede to the human rights conventions and, in that way, guarantee that human rights are respected, including in countries where the EU has jurisdiction.The aforesaid legal practice is not static. Fortunately, it is developing the whole time. Think of the latest judgement on homosexual equality, which has caused Great Britain to change its legislation, and the same will hopefully happen soon in Austria. I also hope that there will soon be a judgement ensuring that citizens are not only entitled to form trade unions but also to be free to join them. The conventions too are constantly being supplemented. We have obtained conventions on bio-ethics and on the protection of personal data and private life, but I should especially like today to draw your attention to two new conventions from 1995 and 1998 concerning national minorities. I think that Bosnia and Kosovo have taught us all that national minorities constitute the most potentially explosive factor in the Europe of the future. We must demand of the candidate States, including Turkey, that, if they want to be a part of the Community, they have to guarantee that national minorities are able to lead their daily lives in peace, using the language they have always spoken in the area concerned. The new Member States should not only comply with these requirements at the present time. They should also guarantee that they will do so in the future and should therefore sign and ratify the conventions, as they would also wish to do, if they have not already done so. But so too must the present Member States. Let us therefore urgently entreat those countries which have not ratified these conventions on national minorities to see to it that this is done straight away. After five years, two Member States have still not signed the Convention for the Protection of National Minorities. They are Belgium and France which otherwise, of course, show such a keen interest in the situations in other countries. Now, I think, they should put matters in order in their own countries and get these conventions signed.The demands we impose upon others we must also impose upon ourselves. We must say to all fifteen governments: go home and get the conventions signed and ratified. Remember, too, the Charter for Regional and Minority Languages and remember the Convention for the International War Crimes Tribunal, which only Italy has ratified. We must all ratify this, for the only means of combating the vicious circle of revenge and people’s taking the law into their own hands is to have war criminals brought to justice and sentenced. I also want to mention the Convention against Torture, which Ireland has still not ratified. Likewise, Belgium, Ireland and Great Britain have yet to recognise the United Nations Committee Against Torture as being competent to deal with individual complaints. I could talk at length, partly about the conditions to which asylum seekers are subject in our Member States. If only half of what is stated in the reports by Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch is correct, then the situation regarding the treatment of asylum seekers is indefensible. I could also mention children’s rights, which are a huge problem, including in a number of candidate States. I could mention the continued discrimination against handicapped people, and I should also like to emphasise, further to Cecilia Malmström’s speech, that, when it comes to women’s equality, we constantly fall short, in the Union’s Member States too. Finally, I want to say that we should perhaps have certain new tools for monitoring human rights, and I would point out that, when it comes to national minorities, it would perhaps be an idea if, in conjunction with the Monitoring Centre for Racism and Xenophobia in Vienna, we were also to have the treatment of national minority languages monitored. I would also mention my proposal that we should have a supervisory body responsible for monitoring effectively the protection of personal data and the right to private life. Technology is developing and so too, therefore, must our instruments for the protection of human rights.(Applause)
Mr President, I should like to thank Mr Maaten who has produced a distinguished report on a particularly wide-ranging subject. Asia is not only huge in terms of area. It also embraces a range of economic, political and religious differences, which mean that it is particularly challenging to deal with the area in a single report. This has been achieved, however. I shall just highlight a couple of points here.In anticipation of the forthcoming ASEM summit in Copenhagen, it must be crystal clear that there is full support for maintaining and developing relations between the EU, the ASEM countries and Asia as a whole. It is first and foremost a question of supporting the struggle to obtain respect for democracy and human rights in Asia. With regard to the global campaign against terror, it is also important for the EU to forge sound alliances with the Asian countries. More extensive relations between the EU and Asia must also play their part in supporting the market economy and sustainable development and, in that way, promoting a prosperous Asia. Simply take a look at recent history and the examples of Japan and Taiwan and it will quickly be very obvious that democracy, the market economy and respect for human rights are the way forward. I must naturally express my delight at the fact that both China and Taiwan are now members of the World Trade Organisation, or WTO. It is of course gratifying to hear the Commissioner confirm that the EU is to open an office in Taipei within a year. Taiwan is the EU’s eleventh largest trading partner and is therefore a very important partner of the EU. Braving possible accusations from Mr Ford, I regret that Taiwan cannot participate in the ASEM Meeting, for example as an observer. By the same token, I also regret that Taiwan is not a member of the World Health Organisation, or WHO, not even as an observer. In my view, every democracy in the world should have a place in these international institutions.(Applause)
Mr President, as has been mentioned, this important debate is taking place against the background of further crises on the border of Kosovo and Macedonia. First of all, therefore, I have to stress the on-going need for cooperation between NATO and the European Union.The Rapid Reaction Force, the rapid reaction mechanism, and the Civil Peace Corps must be complementary to NATO. Indeed that is stressed in paragraph 8 of the General Affairs Council's comments on international cooperation.As has been mentioned by Minister Lindh, soldiers today carry out peace-making Community activities. The crossover between peace and war activities is now difficult to see. The European Union must be complementary to NATO. I urge the Council of Ministers and the Commission to comment on that point.Tackling the root causes is another problem. Society is seriously destabilised by organised crime. Can the Commission and Ministers stress that they will tackle this across borders through Interpol and with mechanisms such as Scotland Yard's Paedophile Unit?Capacity building is another critical point. When we look at Pristina we see that the hospital is under great stress. Is it not a necessity for the new AIDCO organisation that the Commission has created, which we welcome, to build up the capacity of the medical and educational professions?Local professionals maintain civilian society but under stress, however excellent NGOs may be, surely local professionals, particularly in education and medicine, are vital. I urge the Commission to support those functions.Finally, of course, accountability. I truly believe, and I am sure everyone here does too, that the best of all conflict prevention mechanisms is a fully functioning Parliament. I urge those present to ensure that this Parliament plays its full part, not just in conflict prevention and crisis management, but in ensuring that the Rapid Reaction Force has an ultimate responsibility to this Parliament as well as to national parliaments, the Council of Ministers and the Commission.
draftsperson of the opinion of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs. – Mr President, one major contribution which the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights made to this report is the emphasis on access to environmental information as a right, not a concession. We also contributed the clause which says that the standards for Member States should also apply to the EU institutions. The contribution from my committee on practical arrangements incorporated in the final report includes a number of amendments which I am glad were taken up by the Environment Committee. I am talking for instance about the inclusion of nuclear fuel and energy and of financial as well as economic analyses, the establishment of accessible registers or lists of available information, the idea that the applicant cannot be charged more than a reasonable cost, which is the actual cost price of collecting the information, and the insistence that there must be a harm test for exceptions, i.e. harm must outweigh the benefits of disclosure.But as far as the scope of the proposal is concerned, I am rather disappointed, if not surprised, at the suggestion that the UK Government, British Labour and Conservative Members sought to exclude private companies whose activities affect the environment. This is the kind of loophole that allowed the previous Conservative government to exempt the privatised water companies. Those amendments failed but I am concerned that the amendment which did go through on Article 2(2)(c) might limit the scope too much. One of the purposes of the new proposal was to close up these previous loopholes which allowed privatised utilities to escape the obligation. The Commission text clearly covered privatised utilities. Does the Commissioner think the amendments on Article 2(2)(c) that were adopted by the Environment Committee ensure that privatised companies which supply gas, electricity, water and so on will still be under the obligation to supply this information?
Mr President, my colleagues, on behalf of my group I thank the rapporteurs for the preparation of their fine reports, and also for the good outcomes in conciliation. These statutory proposals belonging to the 'Erika I' package contain essential measures for the increasing of marine safety. These matters have also made reasonably rapid progress, and in conciliation the essential changes to the texts demanded by Parliament have been incorporated.In the case of the classification societies, the Community's authority needs to be increased with regard to the approval and control of these societies. As the rapporteur stated, the classification society must not be under the authority of the owners or builders of the vessels, or of others engaged in commercial activity in the sector. Inspections of vessels must also be increased. Extended inspections must be directed specifically at vessels which represent a risk. In the case of vessels on the 'black list' which are associated with a high risk, the criteria for entry of the vessel to a port must be stricter. In order that accidents can be prevented in advance as effectively as possible, we need an advance notification obligation for vessels and mandatory inspections of high-risk vessels. The port control directive will improve the uniformity and effectiveness of the inspection procedure of port States. It is appropriate that vessels be furnished with Voyage Data Recorders in future, and that access to EU ports can be denied to vessels which are clearly in a poor condition. An accelerated phasing-in of double hull vessels must be managed in such a way as to avoid generating insurmountable problems with the scrapping of ships and the building of new ones. At the same time, the flexibility of oil transportations must be safeguarded. The safety of shipping and the prevention of marine pollution may be promoted by the flag States enforcing the currently valid conventions so as to make them obligatory. Along with the further tightening of regulations, care must be taken that the decisions to be made are realistic and feasible.One of the points of emphasis of the EU's White Paper on transport is the favouring of water traffic in transportation. Because of its environmental friendliness, water traffic is indeed very suitable for heavy goods transportation. In the event of accidents, however, water routes are highly vulnerable, and environmental damage recognises no borders. For this reason, decisions made only within the Union are not sufficient; instead, questions of responsibility for marine safety must be dealt with on a worldwide basis. We need international agreements which also involve (for example) Russia, whose vessels will in future be sailing more and more in the world's seas via the Gulf of Finland and the Baltic.
Breast cancer is the principal cause of death among women. In 2000, in Europe, this disease of the industrialised world lead to the death of more than 79 000 people. In Belgium alone, no less than 10 000 new cases of breast cancer and 3 500 deaths are recorded every year.There is a lot of work to be done. That is why I voted in favour of the report by Mrs Jöns, which is very comprehensive, sometimes too much so, and proposes some interesting routes for reducing the death rate by 25% by 2008. In order to achieve this, the report rightly stresses identifying the risk factors, coordinating national policies and screening programmes.It is crucial that mammograms are free across the Union for women between 50 and 69. It is just as essential to seek out women who are not so well informed and less accessible. Mobile screening programmes, which have been running Belgium in the province of Liège, for more than ten years, have enabled more than 70 000 people to be examined. So many women who, without the mammobile, would not have automatically done the test at a doctor’s surgery or hospital.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I too wish to thank Mr Grosch for the purposeful, excellent work he has done in preparing this important report.The directive will serve to improve the professional skills of drivers as well as road safety, as has been said here. Harmonised regulations concerning initial professional qualifications will raise the social status of drivers and furthermore heighten the esteem the profession is held in. Improved basic training will also enable the Member States to reduce the minimum age limit for drivers of many classes of vehicle, which will make the profession more attractive and improve the supply of labour in the transport sector.As the Council has taken the committee’s amendments very much into consideration in the common position, we should proceed without conciliation and swiftly move this issue forward. In my opinion, we should still think carefully about the aim to bring forward by one year the deadline for the transposition of the measures into national law. The Member States have highlighted the problems arising from a tighter timetable, since the directive will mean a great deal of reorganisation with regard to training. The Member States therefore need time to implement this.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in letters dated 3 August 1999 and 3 December 1999, the Council called on the European Parliament, pursuant to Article 39 of the Treaty, to deliver its opinion on a draft convention between the Member States aimed at guaranteeing improved mutual assistance in criminal matters.It is thus, as you can see, a very important draft, that will effectively serve to provide the Member States of the Union with a more comprehensive and consistent instrument for mutual assistance.In actual fact, there are still certain differences of opinion within the Council over the type of convention, and over certain provisions contained therein. Some of these differences have already been ironed out, but others persist.The spirit of the proposal is nevertheless to equip those responsible for applying the law – primarily the judiciary, but also the citizens concerned – with a valid operational instrument to fight crime, which respects fundamental guarantees as regards defence and general principles of human rights.It is for this reason that, despite the many omissions in the text, the provisions set out therein could – and I say could, Mr President – be accepted on condition that they are suitably amended in order to ensure they can be implemented by those responsible for applying the law and are acceptable to the citizens. The Commission has proposed various amendments to this end, all of which aim to systematically restructure the Council proposal by suggesting a series of technical adjustments that will render the text harmonious and consistent as regards the amendments proposed. The amendments can be summarised as follows: they place greater emphasis on fundamental rights of defence, introduce a range of technical modifications needed to make a whole series of obscure and inconsistent passages more comprehensible, and delete the section relating to the remote interception of telecommunications, an area which still requires not only increased technical awareness but also acceptance on the part of the governments of the various Member States of the Union.The proposal, as formulated by the Council and subsequently amended by the Commission, provides for a convention based on three titles: the first lays down guidelines for ensuring the consistency of procedures and formalities for letters rogatory; the second lists a whole series of specific requests for mutual assistance and defines the formalities and procedures which must be followed in relation to these specific types of mutual assistance; the third and last provides for and codifies the procedures via which telephone conversations conducted by citizens in a State other than the one instigating proceedings can and must be intercepted.Mr President, international cooperation is certainly needed in order to tackle both cross-border crime and crimes which are committed in one State, but the evidence for which is to be found in another. It is nevertheless necessary to reach agreement as soon as possible on a new convention which will also take other, even more delicate issues into account: the whole issue of double jeopardy, that of specialities, and that of the credibility of one Member State of the Union in respect of the judicial authorities of other Member States of the Union.These are thus extremely important questions, which we hope that the Council will see fit to take up when formulating a new opinion.As regards other aspects of this subject, Mr President, I would refer you to my written report.IN THE CHAIR: MR PACHECO PEREIRAVice-President
Mr President, Commissioner, in our solemn speeches, we say that we are all minorities in the EU. What is good about this is that no one can bully any other group.The monitoring of minority rights was an important part of the negotiations on enlargement, yet there is no policy for linguistic minorities in the EU. We have demanded more of the present candidate countries than we did of previous ones. The situation in Cyprus following the referendum was also the most recent demonstration of the need we have for minimum rules governing the way in which ethnic and linguistic minorities are treated and governing the rights that must exist. It is therefore important that respect for diversity be a feature of the adopted Constitution and that the EU subscribe not only to the Council of Europe’s Convention on Human Rights but also to the Council of Europe’s conventions on minorities: both the framework convention and the Charter for Regional Languages.In that way, the EU would quickly obtain a yardstick for policy in relation to minorities. It should be possible to deal with infringements of minority rights in accordance with Article 7 of our present Treaty, in which case a Member State’s own rights would be revoked if it infringed minority rights. It is now time for the EU to go the whole way and recognise linguistic diversity, as well as possessing a genuine strategy for respecting such diversity.
Mr President, the aim of the current Commission proposal is to bring Community legislation into line with the recommendations adopted by NEAFC in 1998. In this way, earlier measures will be incorporated into a comprehensive and reinforced new control scheme designed to ensure respect for the conservation and management policy agreed under the Convention. The proposal has two main objectives: firstly, a scheme of control and enforcement is to be established for the Contracting Parties; and, secondly, a programme promoting compliance by non-Contracting Party vessels with NEAFC’s regulations is to be carried out. The recommendations are reminiscent of the rules which are applied within the organisation governing fisheries in the north-west Atlantic, NAFO. Through consultation and cooperation, NAFO contributes to the optimum utilisation, rational management and conservation of the fisheries resources within this Convention Area. The Commission has tabled a proposal for converting NEAFC’s recommendations into Community legislation which, in a simplified and coherent way, incorporates all the acquired experience from NAFO and is in keeping with Parliament’s previous position.The proposal has two aspects to it which ought to be emphasised. First of all, the implementation of Community policy. The present proposal contains only the general guidelines for the Community’s initiatives in this area. It was left to the Commission to adopt the technical aspects after having submitted these to a Management Committee. Nevertheless, the Commission may be assured that Parliament will closely monitor decisions taken under this procedure, and it will in particular ensure that the same methods for the reporting of catches and fishing effort are applied by all Member States.Secondly, the financial burden. When it comes to distributing this, the Commission believes that it is up to the Member States to provide adequate resources to meet their obligations of control within NEAFC. I would again draw a parallel with NAFO, where inspection and control are funded from the Community budget. I should like to see increased Community involvement in inspection and control in order to ensure that the rules are applied even-handedly. Openness and fairness are vital elements in obtaining fishermen’s support, and it is only through obtaining their support that any reinforcement of inspection and control arrangements will really be effective.Increased Community involvement in the future will naturally have budgetary implications and demand a reallocation of resources. This ought not however to deflect the Commission from taking the lead in pressing for change or to deter the European Parliament from calling upon the Commission to do so. Provided that the appropriate increased financial resources are made available, there is no reason why the Community cannot play a much more active role.The recommendations came into force on 1 July 1999. They were therefore already binding on the Community before the Commission tabled its proposal on 12 July 1999. The European Parliament has not therefore had the opportunity to make a contribution to the debate, and I should like, on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries, to criticise the Commission for this. This is an outrageous way of going on, to use one of the words employed during the debate in the Committee on Fisheries.Finally, I should like to emphasise the importance of informing the fishing industry of the purpose of the proposal and of making it clear that the rules are to the industry’s advantage. Despite the aforementioned reservations and criticism about the timing of the Commission’s proposal, this important legislation should be approved by Parliament without delay.
Many thanks to Commissioner Monti for a very thorough answer. I look forward to the Commission’s continuing, first and foremost, with its investigation into extensive state aid and, especially, to its conducting a general investigation into whether the conditions of state aid to small and medium-sized enterprises should be changed. I hope to be, and look forward to being, kept up to date on this matter, which means an incredible amount to industry not merely in Denmark but also in other countries, including the western part of Germany.
I would like to take up the subject just touched upon by the previous speaker, namely the transatlantic aspects of telecoms liberalisation and particularly paragraph 6 and 7 of the draft resolution, which refers to the unfortunate initiative by Senator Hollings to restrict the transfer of licences to telecoms companies which are more than 25% state-owned.This seems an ironic lurch towards a protectionist position at the very time when here in Europe and in this Parliament we are about to embark upon a debate on the latest raft of measures which, in my view, would make the European Union telecoms market the most liberalised and the most open market in the world going way beyond many if not all of the commitments into which we entered in GATT and the WTO.This is politically if not technically an unbalanced situation which merits the attention of this House. Whilst I have some philosophical sympathy with Senator Hollings and his colleagues who consider that state-owned companies have some hidden and sometimes explicit advantages over their privately-owned competitors, the way in which Congress in the United States is trying to address this issue is contrary to both the spirit and the letter of US multilateral commitments. I would ask fellow Members, when considering the latest raft of telecoms measures in the weeks to come, not to allow this to go unnoticed or for that matter unchallenged.
Mr President, I still have three concrete questions which puzzle me concerning this troublesome issue of the recruitment agency of the EU.First: What was the point of solemnly proclaiming the Charter of Fundamental Rights, should the Council be unwilling to implement it?Second: What sort of message does he think this sends to the citizen of the existing Union and also of the applicant countries?Third: When does he expect the matter to be finally and satisfactorily resolved?
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party supports Mr García-Margallo y Marfil’s report. We believe it rightly emphasises the importance of providing a more appropriate framework to ensure that the objectives set in the various stability pacts and the main broad guidelines of economic policy are attained. The stability and credibility of the Union’s economy and its single currency are at stake.Over the last few days we have become very much aware of social unrest resulting from essential proposals to reform pensions systems. Reform is needed to guarantee pensions and associated benefits. These are integral parts of the welfare state system characteristic of the European Union. The Union provides and guarantees the best social protection and the greatest social balance when compared to other large economies.If it is to preserve that balance, the European Union must make a more determined effort to take the action many have called for in recent times. During the preparations for the Spring European Council in Brussels under the current Greek Presidency, we highlighted two shortcomings. The first was failure to attain the Lisbon objectives. The second concerned the need to tackle a number of outstanding structural reforms mentioned in Mr García-Margallo y Marfil’s report. Action on these is certainly needed.I should like to reiterate the importance of this area. It encompasses a number of unresolved key issues which are therefore still holding back economies and their development at European level. Liberalisation of some sectors is one area where action is outstanding. Another is failure to adopt technological innovation. Research and development is not being promoted adequately either. Further, as Mr García-Margallo y Marfil pointed out, it has now become urgent to give priority to SMEs, especially to those with the most potential for growth and innovation.It is well known that large corporations tend to shed jobs when times are hard. This is happening at the moment. It is actually the SMEs that create more employment and stimulate economic recovery. I would emphasise once again that such recovery must take place within a strict framework and budgetary balance. It is also essential to attain the objectives set in the stability pacts. These are an integral part of the framework on which the European Union and the euro are based and from which they will develop. We cannot afford to restrict or weaken it.
Mr President, I am speaking briefly to justify my abstention. I am naturally in agreement with the main points in the text voted on, covering the institutions, the follow-up to the Lisbon European Council and aspects of fiscal policy and certainly food safety problems.But, given the circumstances, I could not vote in favour of paragraph 8 on Austria. I think the President-in-Office of the Council clarified matters greatly as to the method followed by the Fourteen, specifically asking Parliament not to consider voting to allow the contacts currently taking place between the foreign affairs ministers to achieve a result.I am astonished at this and I agree with what Mr Dell’Alba said, about the low regard in which Parliament holds the concept of parliamentary debate, because if it had been possible for the groups to discuss the matter and adopt a position – and there reform was important – after the speech by the President of the Council, I am certain that the vote would not have been the one we have recorded. That is why I felt I had to abstain.
I would like to thank the Commissioner for his response. I would, however, like to add something. One of the main challenges in the enlargement process will be to tailor the veterinary and plant-health conditions prevalent in the acceding countries to those in the European Union. Would the Commissioner be prepared to encourage observers from the Central and Eastern European countries that wish to join the EU, to attend management committees, scientific committees or any other committees concerned with veterinary and plant health, on a permanent basis?
Madam President, I would first of all like to make it clear that I am all for the further completion of the internal market, that is to say the removal of obstacles facing EU citizens in the area of free movement of goods, services and capital. I also welcome Commissioner Bolkestein’s dynamic approach in this respect. This development results in great economic expansion and has led to more prosperity in Europe. Also, the free movement of goods within the Union has become something which both citizens and industry take for granted.There will undoubtedly be Swedish consumers who will benefit, and also find pleasure, from the Commission proposal once beer, wine and spirits, ranging from whisky and brandy to lesser products such as gammeldansk, shellfish in brine and Beerenburg, are more readily available. There is, therefore, no doubt in my mind as to the general benefits of the internal market. Despite this, I also have the impression that it is unsatisfactory to treat alcohol only as an issue which concerns the internal market or agricultural policy, as has often been the case. This is clearly an issue which also has major public health implications.The main focus in the discussion on the internal market’s further liberalisation and completion is the economic goal of banishing unfair competition. The aspect of a high level of public health and consumer protection, as expressly included in Article 95 (3) of the Treaty, is sometimes overlooked although it forms an essential part of the European treaties. The European Community will need to carve itself a role in the increasing cooperation between Member States in collating data and exchanging expertise and best practices. Across the Union, we will also need to take into consideration the less attractive aspects of alcohol use, which also, unfortunately, exist. This is also in line with the pledge which the European Union made with regard to the World Health Organisation. Last year, all Member States agreed to back the second European alcohol action plan drafted by the WHO. It means that, by the year 2005, all European countries must have drafted a tax policy which contributes to a reduction in alcohol-related accidents. The action plan also underlines the huge need for a higher minimum tax for alcohol in the EU as part of a general health strategy. I understand that the Swedish Presidency will be organising a conference on this subject in Stockholm in early 2001.It is therefore difficult to overlook the significance of the fiscal aspect in this connection. It has transpired that not only the fiscal instrument greatly impacts on total consumption, but that the tax level in a particular Member State also has a bearing on the neighbouring countries. Sweden is greatly affected by the excise level in Denmark which, in turn, is greatly influenced by Germany. In the United Kingdom, people cross the Channel to France on a massive scale to stock up on alcohol. The Commission has now levelled criticism at Sweden because the excise on wine is apparently too high in comparison with the excise on beer. Beer is produced in Sweden. But it is, of course, interesting in this connection to note that seven or so wine-producing EU Member States still apply a zero tax rate to wine.In principle, fiscal measures are a matter governed by national sovereignty. But in order for the internal market to operate most effectively, Member States should strive for a higher degree of coordination in prescribing excise levels for alcoholic beverages.Mr President, the general benefits to be had from the internal market are beyond dispute. It is nonetheless unsatisfactory to treat alcohol only as an issue which concerns the internal market because it quite clearly has major social and public health implications, as well as implications for consumer protection. The government should not act as a moralist and the moderate use of alcohol poses no problem whatsoever, of course. It even has beneficial effects on health. But the use of alcohol which leads to fatalities on the roads, violence within the family and such like is not just a Swedish phenomenon by a long chalk. Public health and consumer protection should form an integral part of the European agenda, and it is encouraging that the European Parliament seems to be heading in this direction. The step-by-step abolition of restrictions, as proposed by the European Commission, gives the Swedish authorities the time to introduce alternative measures in order to address the problem of alcohol.
During the 1990s, the use of cannabis considerably increased in most EU countries. However, users of hard drugs by injection are a more elusive group that is therefore bound to be condemned to social exclusion, as the report indicates. We must respond to this.First of all, it is now essential that we advocate prevention through information channels. In order to do this we need to set aside financial resources and take action by organising campaigns, mainly in schools, in order to raise awareness among young people. We need to inform over and over again in order to prevent current standards from becoming blurred in the eyes of the young people of Europe.Secondly, it is essential that we involve everyone: parents, but also teachers, the police and the justice system, and finally and above all, associations that support drug addicts. That is why we should welcome the recommendation inviting local groups to help drug addicts to opt for a healthier life.
Mr President, Commissioner, the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party is very satisfied with the outcome of this conciliation. When we consider the outcome and what we were aiming for, our assessment is that we wish in every respect to recommend what has emerged. Firstly, we succeeded, at the previous readings, in averting an increase in the threshold values that would have significantly limited the scope of this directive. That is something we are really pleased about.Secondly, we think we have achieved secure and modern tendering methods. I believe that, as previous speakers have said, we can now go in both for providing more information to businesses on the Internet and for enabling small businesses more easily to find out which rules apply. This will play a part in our successfully helping the administrations to modernise. I believe that this is very important now that we are talking about a competitive Europe. Our objective is to increase the number of cross-border tenders. When we began the debate, we were sometimes concerned about the reports we received at the time to the effect that there were so extremely few cross-border tenders.Our rapporteur in the Conciliation Committee, Mrs Cederschiöld, whom I had wanted to thank for her constructive work, mentioned that transparency had increased significantly. I believe that what the Conciliation Committee has arrived at, and which really is closer to the Liberal idea, is what the majority signed up to at second reading. It is important for competitors also to be able to see the final outcome of a tendering procedure and to be able to judge whether any errors have been made. That is what is most important in the fight against corruption and in the interests of greater value for money.As we all know, the issue of the social and environmental criteria has been much to the fore in this debate. We can now observe that the Commission has also prepared an action plan for modern environmental engineering. I really do believe that the final outcome we arrived at is a tool in this context too. We must not be afraid of modern environmental technology.Finally, I want to say that, following our last conciliation meeting, the Finnish press said that the case of Concordia Bus Finland, brought before the EC Court of Justice and relating to bus traffic in Helsinki, had led to a sound directive on public procurement. I was somewhat irritated about this, because no buses operate without drivers. I want to thank all the drivers who contributed to this end result, and I note that we have steered the matter into a safe harbour.My special thanks are due both to the Commissioner and his colleagues, who said just the right words at the right time, and to the Conciliation Committee’s secretariat for its quite excellent work. We have worked on this matter for many years, and it feels as though we have reached a conclusion. I hope it will help our administrations get greater value for money.
Chairman of the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs. – This proposal for a Council Regulation is an important proposal. My committee has worked very hard to prepare Parliament's response to this proposal in time for the deadline set down by the Council and in time for the Council to discuss it on 2 December. If we have time to debate this report this morning, then we must vote at lunch-time. This will enable Parliament to give its response in time for the Council to discuss it.However, if we are not able to have this debate this morning, if there are too many speakers down for the Napolitano report and the Giannakou report, then I would support Mr Pirker's proposal that we not vote on the matter tomorrow. It is too important a matter to be voted on a Friday, even though I personally will be here. I am not sure whether those who, as I understand it, have a problem with the report, such as the French delegation in the Socialist Group, will still be here tomorrow – we might ask them that.However, if it is not to possible to vote on it today, might we ask the services of Parliament whether it would be possible to have the debate this evening and the vote on the Wednesday of the December part-session to allow us to forward the results to the Council by the Thursday; and might we also ask for the assistance of the Commissioner in intervening with the Council on this matter?
Mr President, after two and a half years of debates, amendments, demonstrations and votes until well into the night, there is now a compromise proposal before us. Not everyone is pleased with it. The result is a step forward in the European maritime sector. I should like to thank Mr Jarzembowski for the fact that he has still achieved a certain result.It will not have escaped anyone’s attention that this topic has unleashed strong emotions; that is quite clear from the dockworkers’ demonstrations here in Brussels, and even in Rotterdam. I should like to touch upon those demonstrations. The demonstrators have made good use of their democratic right to inform us as MEPs fully and effectively. I welcome the idea of demonstrating to press home a message. However, it is regrettable if this degenerates into causing destruction, disturbance, threatening people and suppressing other views. I have first-hand experience of the uncomfortable feeling one is left with if one adopts a stance that deviates from theirs. This is very unfortunate. As a result, people are forced into excessive action and mudslinging.Despite this, something has been achieved – a legal framework that allows for clear and transparent relations between ports, authorities and service providers, with transparency in the use of public funds to finance ports and the agreement to draft a clear guideline on the reconcilability of state support with European law.Pilotage services have been included after all, together with the option of self-handling, which, to my mind, is too restricted. Shipping companies have acquired more entrepreneurial room, which they need in order to secure a good return on investments. More room means growth and employment. More jobs, that is the best social policy, in general. In Parliament, we have very little say in the quality of the work. We should, therefore, not turn this into our ambition. In the Netherlands, where a great deal of port work is done, progress is being made and industrial peace has been reasonably limited. In order to remove the concerns surrounding the enhanced self-handling possibilities in shipping companies, quayside service providers and trade unions, I have received written pledges from both the Social Affairs Minister and the Transport Minister, our former fellow MEP, Mrs Peijs, that they want to create new policy to put strict guarantees in place to ensure that Dutch labour law is observed in the ports. Pledges of that kind should also be possible elsewhere. In short, we are making progress, and the Liberals will be predominantly voting in favour.
Mr President, 500 000 EU citizens die each year from smoking – that is 1 400 a day. Even if a small number of people stop, it will have huge health implications, not only for smokers but for passive smokers as well. It is important that we fight delaying tactics today. The EU already regulates health warnings and tar yields. Smokers also have a right to know that there are more than 600 additives licensed for use in tobacco products. They have a right to know that 'light' and 'mild' branding is misleading. People inhale more if they have a light cigarette than any other cigarette. The health warning should be large and explicit. We must warn of the dangers of smoking, the dangers of lung cancer and also the danger of bronchitis and asthma. People must know that it is not just lung cancer but other lung diseases and other diseases as well. We must warn of the dangers of passive smoking.I know the dangers of smoking and the dangers of passive smoking. I started smoking when I was 11 years old. I ended up smoking 40 a day. I had chronic bronchitis and I was told by the doctor that I had to give up as otherwise my life would be in danger. My health has been damaged by smoking.There was no warning when I took up smoking. Maybe I would not have taken it up if there had been. Now I am the victim of passive smoking. I just have to pass a cigarette and I have an asthma attack, especially in this building. I have asthma attack after asthma attack. I am a good example of why we should adopt this report now. Even if one person stops smoking as a result of this, or does not take it up; even if one person is not inconsiderate any more; even if it stops one person being hospitalised because of other people's smoke, it is worth it.
Madam President, Commissioners, it seems to be ladies’ night here this evening.The aim of eco-design is to integrate technical possibilities when they are at their greatest. More than 80% of environmental damage is determined at the manufacturing stage of a product. We learnt this whilst considering this Directive. We also know that the EU has adopted many rules to eradicate dangerous substances. We have rules on waste management with quantitative targets for recovery and reuse. It was a relatively natural course of action, then, for the committee to lay a certain emphasis on energy consumption, in particular, in its consideration of the proposal.I should like to make a point of this, as strong criticism seems to have been levelled at our work, stressing the energy aspect. This is against a background in which energy consumption has continued to increase substantially in most parts of Europe, and many Member States are having difficulty meeting the Kyoto objectives. New tools for saving energy are important, therefore. Latest reports in my home country indicate that it is set to exceed the CO2 emissions quota for the 2005-2007 period by 14%.Criticism has also been levelled at the ‘top-runner’ approach that we have used here. I believe, however, that there is a great deal of misunderstanding about what we mean by this. We want the leading and best technology as a yardstick for future implementing measures. This forms a framework for decisions, but does not exclude anyone from the market. On the contrary, I think that we have a system that leaves scope for continuous improvement.The report is also criticised for not having heeded the three pillars of sustainable development. It is said that we have given priority to the environment at the expense of social and economic issues. That criticism is wrong, and I think that this is self-evident if one studies what we say about the life-cycle approach and our support for small- and medium-sized enterprises. We are aware of the economic issues, the social issues and the possibilities, but also the risks.When all is said and done, early attention to environmental issues, as the Commissioner also said, is more economical than many other methods of environmental governance, for instance subsidies, and also labelling, unfortunately. It has become apparent that we obtain very little value for money from subsidies at the intervention stage.I should also like to point out that, just as we did when we were considering the Green Paper on Integrated Product Policy, we have given our support here to measures applicable to SMEs. We also call on the Commission to establish a database in order to facilitate the incorporation of the life-cycle approach and eco-design into the activities of all enterprises. This is an innovative concept. The scope is broad, but in actual fact what we have here is an organised regulatory framework for how to proceed, how to choose what is important and how to set requirements in the future: the prototype for good governance, in other words.There have been no objections here in Parliament to the fact that the European Parliament will not in future be determining how much energy a product should consume. On the contrary, we are saying that this will be determined where there is the expertise. In my opinion, what we are proposing is an important simplification.Self-regulation also has a role to play, in Parliament’s view, but only if it produces better, faster results than would the regulated procedure.Unfortunately, although I did not quite catch what the Commissioner said at the end, I do not think that this Parliament will at any rate be able to reach agreement with the Council at this reading, and that means we lose a fair amount of time. We had wanted to make faster progress, and we want the Directive to define a work plan, including for the products that are responsible for 40% of carbon dioxide emissions. We want to proceed quickly, as it is our opinion that much time has been lost.I wish to thank my fellow Members for their constructive cooperation on the preparation of this report. I should like to express my thanks for your understanding when I took over from Mrs Ries, who became Belgian State Secretary for European Affairs. I should also like to thank the Commission for its goodwill in wishing to reach a speedy agreement with the Council.I also think that we have been very united, and that has been a great strength. Our views still differ on a number of small points, for instance with regard to the legal basis and conformity assessment, but we shall not let the details obscure the fact that we have been united. Parliament wants rapid progress and wants to implement the necessary measures promptly. I hope that the Council, and Parliament with the new Members elected after us, will be able to reach swift agreement on this so that there is no further delay to these important measures.
Thank you, Mr President. Not so long ago, there was a war in Ethiopia, the Ogaden War, and there was a war in the north of Kenya, the Rift War, and the intention of both wars was to unite all Somalis in one country. If we consider the situation today, it has completely changed. The Somalis are fighting each other more than they do other governments in neighbouring countries in order to reunite Somalia.As it would appear today, the country is breaking up into all kinds of groupings. The most stable area seems to be the north, and what was the subject of consultation two years ago, a transitional national government, in actual fact, came to nothing.Everyone is now at war with each other, which is a dangerous situation. It means that we in Europe, and other countries in the region, will be receiving many refugees from Somalia, and I do not know whether they will be welcome everywhere. There is also a considerable risk that it is a breeding ground for extremist groupings. We know all too well since 11 September what the implications of that could be.What can the European Union do in the current situation? In my view, it should first and foremost apply the special rules of the Cotonou Agreement, because we all know that Somalia was unable to sign this agreement and is not a member of it either; but the special provisions will need to be applied in this instance. This means that we would then be able to alleviate human suffering and grant emergency aid, and I gather that that is what the Commission is doing. However, in the regions that enjoy a certain level of stability, we can start repairing and building roads, hospitals, and suchlike, so that some sense of stability will return to the region. Above all, it is up to the Somalis to solve their problems; we could never do this for them.The role of the neighbouring countries is also crucial. In the light of their past, do they really want Somalia to be reunited? This is something that I very much doubt. Someone has already raised the forthcoming IGAD Conference in Nairobi; if I counted correctly, this is the fourteenth in the course of a decade or so. Let us hope that it will be successful this time round. Given the signs, I am not so optimistic as the previous speakers, but in my view, the Italians still know Somalia better than any other nationality in the EU. I hope that they will be proven right.It is also up to the European Commission to get the EU Member States, in particular, to sing from the same hymn sheet. I have a feeling that if we look at the United Kingdom’s attitude, or Italy's, these are quite different. The European Commission has some missionary work to do in this area too, for which I wish you every success.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, the WTO must guarantee the purity and quality of food. For that reason, with the meeting at Seattle drawing near, the EU must not be too modest in its demands. Europe wants to practise a social and sustainable agricultural policy and, above all, produce food which is pure and of good quality. That is why the environment, people’s health and that of animals, and the question of fairness must be a proper basis for the talks.The agenda for the negotiations must be broad in scope from the outset. The European agricultural model has to be forcefully promoted in the talks. The quality and purity of food cannot be put into jeopardy as the result of a liberalised market. In future, food production must be able to comply with the principle of caution. In addition, I think it would be best for all if food could, in the future, be produced near to where it is to be consumed. Regional food chains would help us to monitor the quality of food in the best way.The EU must take an aggressive stance to defend its own sustainable course of action. Furthermore, others must take account of the protection of the environment and health in their own production processes, if trade is to be liberalised.
Mr President, in order not to adopt something that is not true, I would simply ask our colleagues who tabled this amendment to withdraw 'Denmark', because Denmark has ratified the Convention.
Mr President, I thank the President-in-Office and the Commissioner for a helpful introduction to this debate and I congratulate the rapporteurs for their good work on the reports before us today. I also take this opportunity to welcome to this House the parliamentarians from the Liberal family in the applicant states who are watching this debate from the gallery and have joined us to debate the issues this week. That parliamentarians from Bulgaria and Romania are here today is a welcome reminder that we are negotiating enlargement with 12 applicant states, even if the timescales for accession may differ a little.Those of us from countries that were not founder members of the European Community remember only too well the anxiety and sense of expectation which surrounded our entry negotiations and the decisions to ratify our application. Coming from a country which had its application vetoed twice, I know of the enduring damage done to perceptions of European integration when a country is rejected. We should bear this in mind in assessing the current applicants. We must recognise that the applicant states have worked hard in recent years to reform their economies and consolidate democracy in order to join the Union. While we expect them to redouble their efforts in the run-up to and after accession, we must also reward those efforts. That is why Liberal Democrats insist that both the criteria and the timetable must be respected. We should not apply stricter standards than for previous enlargements, nor pretend that everything in our own gardens smells sweet.Enlargement is a process of continuous assessment, not a one-off exam. There are hotheads and faint hearts on both sides who will seek to exploit difficulties in meeting the Copenhagen criteria. We must not allow them to derail enlargement. It is far better to overcome outstanding problems through the enlargement process. What is important to the health of a country is the direction in which its face is set and the screening of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms must be an ongoing process, part of a wider scrutiny of all Member States – old and new – in a European Union with the Charter of Fundamental Rights at its heart.Liberal Democrats deplore the abuse of enlargement negotiations to reopen old wounds and animosities. The infamous Beneš decrees are a good example of this. It serves no useful purpose to inflame tensions on this issue, which is why my group has tabled amendments to Mr Brok's report to seek to lower the temperature of the debate.The refusal of four governments – including Mr Murphy's – at the General Affairs Council this week to reach agreement on a common position on agriculture stems in part from the inadequacy of the financing package agreed in Berlin. We are constrained to live within Berlin's limits, but if a deal is postponed until autumn – as some propose – this would jeopardise the prospect of admitting new Member States in time for the European Parliament elections in 2004. We support the Commission's proposals to phase-in direct payments but, as soon as enlargement is agreed, we must take forward reform of the CAP. We need to shift the focus away from the producer onto the consumer, from quantity to quality.On the controversial issue of free movement of persons, I urge all Member States to follow the lead of Denmark, Sweden, Ireland and the Netherlands, which have said they will apply no restrictions to free movement. There are no rational grounds for believing that enlargement will be followed by the mass migration sometimes feared by our citizens. It is precisely these fears which we, as politicians, have to tackle head on. We have a responsibility to make the case for enlargement to our electorates and we must not shrink from that challenge.The adoption of the report to be voted on tomorrow will give the green light to enlargement. The historic prospect beckons of a wider, stronger Union – a bulwark for freedom and democracy in an uncertain world. Let ours not be the generation which flunks this opportunity.(Applause)
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of all to thank Mr Vander Taelen for his sterling report. I fully subscribe to his view that it is sheer madness to think that we produce excellent films in Europe, while only 22% of those end up in cinemas, not to mention the percentage of non-national films that are being shown in the Member States, despite the fact that for people of all ages, film is the ideal medium to get to know each other’s culture.Why is it that European film attracts such a small audience, while the cinema-viewing public is on the increase? It seems appropriate to me to commission the European Audiovisual Observatory to carry out an in-depth study into the motives of the film public and its film choices. Based on this, it would then be possible to use a programme such as Media Plus to support the distribution of the European film in a more focused and effective manner. In addition, the other media play an important role in the promotion of European film, of course. Radio and television may devote attention to it, but television in particular could do so in a more structured way by means of a fixed amount, or quota, in other words, of transmission time. An alternative example might be specific European channels which specialise in one particular field, for example, a pan-European children’s channel which broadcasts high-quality European children’s programmes and children’s films. Unfortunately, I am not of the same mind as Mr Vander Taelen when he states that it should be compulsory for TV channels to invest a proportion of their turnover in the film industry. As a Liberal, and also on behalf of my group, that is excessive intervention from the powers that be.As has been stated before, it seems to me that the European Investment Bank has a role to play in this. One of the areas in which investments must be made is e-cinema. Among other things, it will enable producers to make different language versions of their films in a more straight-forward manner, which will certainly benefit children’s films, for example. After all, although we insist on a sound command of languages here in this House, the supply of adapted language versions would be another excellent way for the citizens of a Member State to get to know the culture of their European fellow citizens.
Mr President, Commissioner, for we citizens who live in the Canary Islands, one of the European Union’s outermost regions, everything that happens in Venezuela affects us significantly, since thousands of people from the Canary Islands had to emigrate to that country in the middle of the last century, and in that respect we regard Venezuela as our eighth island.Therefore, we have been greatly affected by this disaster in Venezuela, in the states of Vargas and Miranda, in the middle of last December, as a result of torrential rain, avalanches and floods on the Venezuelan coast, at the foot of Ávila, a national park where I have had the opportunity to work professionally. The human losses were high, as well as the number of injuries, while the material loss amounts to thousands of millions of euros.We all reacted to the enormity of the disaster, from Europe and from America, with humanitarian aid and economic support, with exemplary solidarity, that is to say, there was a speedy international response on all levels, including the European Commission, certain Member States and some Spanish communities having family ties with Venezuela.Having overcome this initial phase, and despite other natural dangers over recent days, it has become more necessary than ever to rehabilitate and reconstruct the damaged housing, facilities and infrastructures – as well as to make the relevant hydrological corrections – and to support the victims of this natural disaster, both morally and economically, since this disaster is one of the most serious tragedies to have hit Latin America, and Venezuela in particular, in recent years.For these reasons, we have all presented a motion for a resolution aimed at producing, basically on the part of the European Union, a technical and financial cooperation plan, amongst other things, in coordination with the Member States and other institutions, which will provide relief and compensation for the effects of this natural disaster. I can guarantee that, on this occasion, the disaster in Venezuela has genuinely become a ‘topical and urgent subject of major importance’.
Mr President, Mr Bourlanges should be congratulated on having drafted a good report on an extraordinarily complex set of questions. It is a report which will be of great interest to the Convention, which is itself studying these questions.The primary achievements are: firstly, to make a clearer distinction between legislative and executive acts; secondly, to rationalise the choice of the instruments available so that force will more clearly follow form and, thirdly, to bring in a clearer class of subordinate legislation which should contribute not only to the quality of primary legislation but also to the parliamentary scrutiny of what is passed.My main amendment on behalf of my group seeks to insist upon a separate amendment procedure for the second part of the Constitutional Treaty. It is essential that the policy chapters are susceptible to a softer form of revision than the existing unanimity, plus national ratification in all Member States. If we fail to bring in such a softer procedure, it may never be possible to alter the political chapters. If the Union insists on the same procedure for the first and second parts, what is the point of splitting the Treaty in the first place?TheGroups used to support the lighter procedure and I trust that their spokesmen will be able to enlighten us as to why they now seem to have changed their minds.IN THE CHAIR: MR DIMITRAKOPOULOSVice-President
we can see Liberals sitting in the Council seats, a Prime Minister who is genuinely Liberal, and at his side he has Mr Haarder. I would like to start by saying that you are a brave man, Prime Minister. Is it really possible to enlarge Europe without Poland? I know that everyone thinks so and says so, but I find it extremely difficult to envisage that happening in the end. I would like to hear your comments on the political and strategic realities in this case.Let me also say a few words about the asylum and refugee policy. I know that this is a sensitive area, and I know that you view all Swedes as big brother types. I hope that is not currently the case, Prime Minister, but that you see me as a Liberal and as a friend, a trusted friend who is also able to tell you a few truths. Sometimes we are wrong, and other times we are right. I must say that I am concerned about developments. I am concerned that Europe is about to become a fortress which does not welcome people. We know that we need so many millions of people. We need perhaps four million each year until 2050 to keep Europe working and to be able to maintain the prosperity of Europe.When Europe is enlarged, I believe it is vital to uphold our values, those values which we Europeans want others to share. I also believe that it is important for us to meet these demands ourselves. I must say, Prime Minister, that I hope that the refugee policy which you have changed in Denmark is not a sign of things to come in the rest of Europe. I believe, in fact, that we need more tolerance and more openness, quite simply more liberalism. Liberalism is what the people of Europe long for. We can never fight negative forces with negative measures.Prime Minister, finally I would like to say that I have great faith in your work. You are completing the work of Mr Uffe Elleman-Jensen. I would like to say good luck, but I also hope that you will change your mind with regard to the asylum and refugee policy.
Mr President, the population of Colombia is suffering under a regime of poverty, violence and drugs. These three problems can only be solved in interrelation to one another. Many Columbians live in dead-end situations. More than half the population earns less than two dollars a day. The inequality is shocking. Three percent of Columbians own 70% of the land.Many farmers rely on growing coca and poppy as their only means of existence. Social inequality, violent traditions and the lack of state power give guerrilla fighters and paramilitary units free reign to sustain their unscrupulous acts of terror. Their fight for power is essentially a fight for drugs. Lawlessness reigns supreme, and human rights violations are legion.Needless to say, the world drugs problem must mainly be tackled at root level, that is to say also in the producing countries themselves. That is why it is essential for farmers in Columbia to be offered a reasonable alternative to producing drugs. This should also be the focal point of the European contribution. In addition, Europe and America must, of course, also open up their markets to alternative products from Columbia.A unilateral military approach will not offer any solace as long as the deeper causes are not addressed. So far, the contamination of plantations has resulted in serious environmental damage and horrific disorders in people, as well as in a shift of production. However, we should at the same time not be naïve. We need to realise that a hard-line approach is sometimes required vis-à-vis the drugs mafia. It is not always possible to win over big-time villains by negotiation alone. Europe should mainly focus on the outcome. The world must be set free from drugs and the Columbian population from poverty and violence.
Mr President, Commissioner and Mr Söderman, the rapporteur’s and the committee’s understanding of the Ombudsman’s report for 1999 – the year characterised by crises within the EU institutions and by an immense distrust of the administration – is that the citizens will only view European integration as legitimate if they have rights that mean they can actively participate in a political dialogue with the institutions. The political dialogue is not, however, a real dialogue if the citizens do not have the right to receive information and to have access to the documents that they ask for and if the opinions they express are not paid attention to, discussed or taken seriously.What has all this got to do with the Ombudsman’s task? The Ombudsman’s task is, of course, according to the Treaty, to investigate cases of maladministration within the Community institutions and within the public bodies. At the request of the European Parliament, the Ombudsman gave a definition of the term “maladministration” in the annual report for 1997. These cases occur when a public body fails to act in accordance with a rule or principle that is binding upon it. During the Ombudsman’s last period of office, the institutions agreed to apply this definition, and it is now, and will be in the future, the basis for the Ombudsman’s activity. In the report, the committee stresses that this jointly approved definition of “maladministration” also involves the right to inspect how the institutions have interpreted Community law.Irrespective of the legal form the Charter of Fundamental Rights will take, it will, in any case, be an expression of the Member States’ common constitutional traditions which, in accordance with Article 6 of the Treaty, shall be respected by the Union and therefore also by the institutions and public bodies. The committee observes, therefore, that the Ombudsman ought to play an important part in implementing a future charter of citizens’ rights.The committee has also expressed its clear support for the fact that the Charter of Fundamental Rights ought to contain rules which give citizens the right to expect good administration within the EU. “Good administration” is the opposite of “maladministration”. The right to good administration, both with respect to the Charter of Fundamental Rights and the Code of Good Administrative Behaviour which Parliament and the Ombudsman have sought, should at least contain: the right to have one’s case heard, the right to inspect documents, the right to prompt answers from the administration and the right to receive replies supported by reasons. All these aspects have been central to the Ombudsman’s work. These rights are prerequisites for the active citizenship that is necessary if the EU is to regain the confidence of its citizens. It is these rights that make citizenship active instead of passive. Good administration can create conditions for active citizenship, whereas maladministration can undermine these conditions.What are the most common complaints to the Ombudsman and into which categories do they fall? Incomplete or refused information, delays that could have been avoided, discrimination, lack of the right to defence. Citizens want to see good administration. They want to be active citizens. These conclusions can be drawn from the ever increasing number of complaints to the Ombudsman and from the nature of these complaints.The Ombudsman has become renowned for his work for the wider public. This is something he should receive a lot of praise for. An investigation that he completed a few years ago resulted in most of the Community’s institutions and public bodies currently having legislation that allows the public to have access to documents. He has tirelessly continued the work for real transparency and for its no longer being possible for data secrecy and personal protection to be used to prevent the public’s scrutiny of the activities of the authorities. Step by step, the Ombudsman has developed his work, endeavoured to obtain better administration and gained the trust of the citizens. His cooperation with the national ombudsmen is also important, as will be his future cooperation with the corresponding bodies in the candidate countries.This is substantial work that Parliament has reason to support. It ought to do this by making sufficient financial resources available to the Ombudsman so that he can carry out the necessary investigations which the mandate requires. We should in the future also make sure that we support an Ombudsman who is independent in his decision making. I would like to address a big thank you to the Ombudsman and his office, as well as to the secretariat at the Committee on Petitions which, as we know, is currently working under difficult conditions.
Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Mennea, for this extremely valuable report. Sport fulfils a major social role in our society; that much is clear. Professional sport fulfils this role too and has great social significance. I have tabled an amendment to Mr Mennea’s report, naturally with his consent, proposing a possible alternative to the transfer system. I happen to believe that the performance on the pitch which we are discussing, in other words the job performance, is no longer proportionate to current remuneration levels. For this reason, I believe it is merely a commercial activity which should be distributed evenly. I would like to know whether you have a response to this.Secondly, on behalf of a large number of fellow MEPs, I have requested the final decision with regard to reforming the transfer system to be postponed. You commented on it yourself a moment ago. The reason being that UEFA, together with a large number of national football federations, is organising a meeting during the next part-session in October and I would ask you to attend, together with Mr Monti.
Mr President, I wish first of all to thank the shadow rapporteurs and others in the informal food safety group in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy for cooperating so well. Naturally, the Commission’s initiative in both reports was also welcome.I shall talk first of all about the monitoring directive. It is necessary to obtain a clear and unambiguous picture of the zoonoses situation in Europe. Of course, we are talking about the food scandals that have affected us, most recently an acrylamide alert in Sweden. We must remember, however, that, even if all these warning reports are serious in themselves, they are in actual fact more serious from a psychological than from a public health point of view.The big threat for the future is the old familiar one which people have lived with for millions of years and which the developing world still lives with. Even in our own time, the most common causes of mortality among infants are in actual fact infectious illnesses and diarrhoea.For us in the rich part of the world, it is resistance to antibiotics which will be the big problem. More and more of our simple infections are tending to become serious again. We should have put the brakes on twenty years ago, so it is already late and perhaps even too late, but there is a danger that, if we cannot radically and quickly reduce the number of infections and antibiotic treatments, we shall soon be back to where we were in our great-grandmothers’ time when almost every woman had to give birth to four children if two were to reach adulthood. The problem is greatest for children and young people. I am therefore very grateful that we are now to chart antibiotic resistance to the zoonoses we discover in Europe.Statistics now indicate that salmonella infection and other animal food-borne infections are tending to decline slowly, while vegetable-borne infection is on the increase. I am therefore very concerned that vegetable food be included in investigations for the purpose of, for example, tracing outbreaks.The most important thing of all about the monitoring directive is that we should obtain common standards so that the information collected is comparable between the different countries. We must have a standardisation of sampling, reporting and the way in which these matters are dealt with. I should also like to draw attention to the fact that new technology should actually make good reporting simpler and quicker so that we do not have to wait two and a half years to be clear about the situation. Greater speed is often required so that it will be possible to inform authorities, producers and citizens at a relatively early stage. That is probably the most important feature of the monitoring directive.The control regulation is perhaps more controversial. The Commission’s proposal was very cautious and restrained and seemed to take account of the fact that certain Member States imagine that salmonella is in something like the same category as a mild cold. That is the kind of attitude that exists. There are also Member States affected by salmonella panic of the kind that exists in my own country.There is nothing strange about such panic. Approximately 50 years ago, we were hit by the world’s biggest salmonella disaster ever, or at least the biggest for which statistics were kept. Subsequently, Sweden began to try to do something about the problem, as naturally happens as a consequence of disasters.It took our country 25–30 years to put in place a system that worked. Matters have proceeded more quickly for Norway and Finland, which have been able to copy the Swedish model. The Swedish model provides us with experience but is presumably too distinctive and not applicable everywhere. Sweden is a small, sparsely populated and open country, which perhaps made it simpler for us to attend to the problems.I think that the proposal is extremely cautious. There is a sense of ‘pussyfooting’ around the problem. I had expected the Directorate-General for Health and Consumer Protection to be tougher in this case. First of all, not all forms of salmonella of significance to public health are included. It is strange that, in certain places, only two kinds are included, even though it is precisely these that account for 80% of illnesses among people today. Or, more precisely, did account for that figure in the past. What is happening with the remaining 20%? Why not include all illnesses that affect, or are dangerous to, public health when efforts are being made to control salmonella? How can the Commission know what type of salmonella will explode onto the scene tomorrow? Will it be St. Paul, Hadar or some other form?We have a vast number of invasive forms of salmonella affecting people’s health. I am therefore keen that the wording, 'of significance for public health' should be included, and account taken of all forms of salmonella.Species of animal are also missing from the Commission’s proposal. I am conscious of the fact that, for safety’s sake, I have included all types of animal, but I shall continue to fight on behalf of intensively reared pigs and veal calves, because we all know that the quantity of antibiotics used is very dangerous. We also know that the feed concerned contains both zoonotic and other bacteria that are wholly resistant to antibiotics.There are, moreover so many simple and practical circumstances that are of relevance that, even if we can ensure that the breeding animals and stalls are kept clean, that does not help one iota if the food is not clean. We know, for example, that a very great source of infection with salmonella aruba is Brazilian soya. We know the story about salmonella normally being killed off at 67 degrees. For ten years, however, aruba has succeeded in surviving at 68 degrees. We should probably not imagine that we shall one day become completely free from risk or that this battle will have been won once and for all. It is, after all, life with which we are concerned here, life which is in some ways as intelligent as ourselves, even if the intelligence concerned is not perhaps to be found in the same place or does not express itself in the same way.I would therefore appeal to the House to support my two reports, just as they were adopted by a broad majority in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy.
Mr President, I have the honour to have my name attached to this report but most of the work has been done by my Christian Democrat colleague, Mr Ingo Schmitt, who took this report through committee. Due to the result of the vote, he chose not to pursue it by introducing it in plenary and I am doing so on behalf of my committee.The Commission has proposed a Council directive on minimum standards for procedures in Member States for granting and withdrawing refugee status. The Commission has come forward with proposals for a number of rules on the handling of asylum applications. This is very much a first step towards the common asylum system which the Commission has proposed and which this House has on many occasions supported. These rules cover reception and detention facilities, the content of refugee status and the application process. They designate time limits for applications and appeals and they introduce specific rules for dealing with inadmissible cases.It is my honour to present on behalf of the committee a number of amendments to these proposals. We recognise that these amendments are not binding but we hope that they will be considered carefully and taken on board in policy formulation. Our amendments seek to clarify and strengthen the position of asylum seekers. We aim to ensure due respect for the Geneva Convention and its protocols and for the European Convention on Human Rights when dealing with applications for asylum. We aim to secure for asylum seekers the right to remain on the territory of a Member State until their appeal has been decided. We recommend special attention be paid to the cases of applications from women and children who have been particularly vulnerable to abuse and attack in the countries from which they flee. We seek to improve access to legal assistance for those seeking asylum and to emphasise that asylum seekers should not be sent back to places where their lives might be in danger.As a general rule, we reject or resist the practice of holding asylum seekers in detention centres. I for one welcome the recent United Kingdom court ruling against the UK government's practice of locking asylum seekers in detention centres, however modern those centres may be. We believe that asylum seekers who are often escaping persecution of the worst kind in their homelands have the right to be treated with dignity when they reach our shores. We understand the pressures on Member States but we reject the creeping tendency we see towards a dilution of the rights of asylum seekers.We believe that the determination of refugee status must remain a legal matter and not a matter of politics or one of political expediency. The health of a society is judged not only by its practices but also by the direction in which its face is set and my committee believes that the Commission's policy is taking us in the right direction even if we seek greater clarity in the rights of some of those to whom it is directed.It is not only a question of our legal and humanitarian obligations but also a question of economic and administrative common sense. The more asylum seekers that a government rejects – perhaps in the hope of courting short-term popular support of the basest nature – the more appeals it will face, the more it will be tied down in lengthy processes which will hit the taxpayer in the pocket. Our amendments seek to ensure not only administrative efficiency but also a humanitarian approach to the position of those on our planet who deserve our support and protection. I hope the House will follow the line that has been put forward by the committee in this report.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this is an important issue, and it is important that we observe Community competence. I am pleased that we have come to conclusions, having looked at ways to make implants safer. My group supports these proposals. At the same time, we would strongly defend the principle of subsidiarity and what is to be dealt with by Member States. However, the proposal does not respect the prevailing principle of subsidiarity on all points, e.g. point 3 on the design of care.I would also like to give a warning about systems of patient registers. If I may take the country which I know best as an example, I can say that we have recently had a discussion because a large number of patients have been surprised at the fact that sensitive medical information has been recorded and then used in an unacceptable way. Therefore, we cannot support what has been said about an EU-wide register, either. This is something which each Member State must consider very, very carefully.With regard to the age limit, we should perhaps avoid making this matter into something of a forbidden fruit. By setting an age limit, I believe we are making it even more attractive. It is a matter which we must take measures against in some other way. I believe that many of us feel it is rather ridiculous and dangerous to have implants, but we should not decide about this at European level.It has been extremely interesting to read the reports ordered by Parliament and the Commission. I can only say that it is very difficult in practice to apply the precautionary principle. I believe the reports on the entire issue have shown us this. It can be seen, for example, that we have been on rather shaky ground when trying to introduce a total ban.
Mr President, Commissioner, the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party has always given the highest priority to the fight for human rights. It means a lot to us that individual persons each be guaranteed both their fundamental freedoms and their basic rights. It is therefore a special honour for me to be rapporteur for this report with a proposal for a European Parliament recommendation to the Council on the Guantánamo detainees’ right to a fair trial.Everyone in this House agrees that international terrorism must be fought. There is therefore no intention behind this report to place a question mark over the fight against terrorism. It has been prepared in order to emphasise that, even in a just cause, there are some quite fundamental rules that have to be obeyed, namely respect for the individual person’s rights, as laid down in the UN Convention on Human Rights and in the Geneva Conventions. In this case, it is, as has already been pointed out, particularly a question of the right to a fair trial and to treatment in accordance with international law.Since January 2002, approximately 660 people from 38 different countries have been held prisoner at the American naval base in Guantánamo Bay, Cuba. We know for certain that 87 of them, and perhaps more, have now been released, but by far the majority of them are still there. They do not know of what they have been accused, they have still not been brought before a judge, and no one knows whether or, if occasion should arise, when they are to be so. The detainees are in a legal vacuum. They are regarded either as ordinary criminals or as war criminals. As ordinary criminals, they should be safeguarded by American law but, according to a court of appeal in Washington, the naval base does not fall under American jurisdiction since it is not a proper part of the United States. Another court of appeal in San Francisco has rejected this argument, but this court of appeal is also the court in the United States whose decisions are most often overturned in the Supreme Court, so it is doubtful whether its pronouncement will be of any consequence. On its own initiative, the American Supreme Court has decided to investigate whether American jurisdiction should also apply to the Guantánamo naval base, and a response is awaited by no later than June of this year.Nor, according to the American authorities, are the detainees at the naval base prisoners of war, and they are thus not protected by the Geneva Conventions, either. The detainees were not part of a regular army when they were taken prisoner. They had no rank or uniforms and did not openly bear arms. Instead, the detainees are regarded by the American authorities as illegal combatants who do not come within known legal systems and who can be detained for an unspecified period without being tried or given access to lawyers.That is the situation of the prisoners. They do not know what they are charged with, and whether or when they can be given fair trials. This is a clear violation of human rights and a breach of international conventions, and the report therefore requests the United States immediately to bring the detainees out of the legal vacuum they are in and guarantee them immediate access to legal assistance, which will clarify the legal status of each individual detainee. It is important to emphasise in this connection that the report applies not only to the European prisoners, but to all the prisoners and to their individual rights as human beings. The report supports the Council position according to which the Third Geneva Convention of 1949 on the treatment of prisoners of war is to be interpreted in such a way that, in case of doubt, the detainees at the Guantánamo naval base are to be treated as prisoners of war until and unless it is decided that they do not fulfil the conditions. Thereafter, they may, if occasion should arise, fall within either the Third Geneva Convention, which applies to legal combatants, thereby affording them status and protection as prisoners of war, or within the Fourth Geneva Convention, which applies to civilians.In the report, we also request the American Government to confirm that the temporary military commission, set up in November 2001, is complying with all the international laws, just as we request the American authorities to give representatives of the states concerned and of international institutions, as well as family members and independent observers, access to the detainees as visitors.The EU and the United States have always been allies. We have always had, have now and shall in the future retain a good relationship with the United States. The report states that the transatlantic relationship is invaluable and irreplaceable and could be a formidable force for good in the world, but only if basic human rights – such as the right to fair trial and the prohibition on arbitrary detention – are respected and remain the core values shared by the United States and the EU.We therefore call upon the United States fully to comply with the obligations it has itself assumed in relation to international law and international humanitarian law. The report recommends to the Council that the issue of the conditions under which the Guantánamo detainees are being held be addressed at the summit that is to take place between the EU and the United States in June 2004. We want a common action plan for the fight against terrorism to be devised – an action plan that combines resolve and action against terrorism with full respect for international humanitarian standards.I should like to thank my fellow MEPs in this House for the many positive contributions I have received from them in connection with this work and for the almost unanimous adoption by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy of the proposal for a recommendation.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, I would first of all like to thank Commissioner Busquin for launching a broad debate on a European research area. It comes at exactly the right time, between two framework programmes. At present, there is no European research area as such. The research policy of the Member States and that of the Union are running parallel without forming a coherent unit. In addition, we invest far less in research than the United States and Japan.These two factors have caused the chasm between us and the United States to widen even more over the past few years. If the European Union wants to invest in more competitiveness, and thus more employment, we will need an approach which is broader and more innovative than the one we have pursued so far.The forthcoming enlargement of the Union makes this all the more pressing. The European Member States need to leave behind their technological nationalism and strive more towards a European Union for research and technology too. This means that European researchers need access to each other’s national programmes. The European framework programme for research and technological development is a useful instrument for stimulating international cooperation, but this programme on its own is not enough to boost the joint European research efforts.Although it only makes up 6% of total European research expenditure, the framework programme fulfils an important multiplier function, a kind of flywheel function. Industry pays 60% of total investments in research in Europe, 90% of which is spent on research to improve existing production processes and, in this way, to retain the competitive edge. Only 10% is spent on new innovative research. As such, the framework programme certainly makes a considerable contribution to this 10%.Europe has no problem converting euros into research, but has far greater difficulty converting research into euros. It appears that commercialisation, i.e. injecting expertise into a product, seems to be much more successful in the United States than it is in Europe. A better link is required between the development of new technology and application in the market. In this respect, increasing expertise is not a goal in itself, but translating expertise into innovation and industrial success, however, is. It creates employment and prosperity. Universities and companies therefore need to work more closely together. As is the case in the United States, the work of scientists should alternate between academia and industry.Commissioner Busquin has now indicated how a European research area could be brought about. However, he mainly focuses on optimising the infrastructure by, among other things, incorporating centres of excellence into a network and by setting up Virtual Centres. But I believe that in order to bring about a European research area, we will need more than measures in the sphere of infrastructure. Infrastructures do not innovate, neither do electronic networks, although they are a prerequisite. But a European research area can only be created if, in addition to an advanced infrastructure, we also have a European identity and European creativity. In my view, the potential of women has been neglected for too long in this respect.My final point concerns the lack of a Community patent. The existing European patent system causes fragmentation and leads to considerable extra costs. A patent application in Europe is ten times more expensive than it is in the US and far more involved. Not only do we not have a Community patent; the mechanisms to help small companies protect their patents are also lacking. Will the Commissioner consult Mr Bolkestein to do something about this? After all, small- and medium-sized companies do not have the means to pay for expensive legal procedures.Finally, I would like to state that Europe needs a joint research policy which accommodates both applied and fundamental research in various technical specialist fields and which takes into account the fact that innovations often emerge at the interface of different scientific disciplines. In future, new employment could mainly be created within the specialist areas of bio-technology and ICT, but also research into human and social sciences will remain necessary in the European Union, with its large diversity of cultures. I would like to thank my colleagues for their kind cooperation.
Mr President, Mr Cocilovo, sooner or later, even the European Union will succeed in giving itself some rules in order to apply the two principles: the ‘user pays’ principle, whereby users meet the cost of infrastructure use, and the ‘polluter pays’ principle, whereby polluters will pay the costs of the negative effects of congestion, pollution and health damage, that are becoming ever more evident. Sooner or later it will happen.At the beginning of the parliamentary term we were idealistic about being able to apply both of them: this has not happened, we are half way there. We can say that the excellent Cocilovo report does, at least, allow us to achieve the first objective of sensibly applying the principle according to which those using the roads are charged the cost of them and this money is used to finance maintenance or further construction and, therefore, indirectly, to thus take a broad approach that, by using cross-financing, allows us to take a more comprehensive look at the corridor in which the road runs.Fortunately, however, it seems to me that the Cocilovo report gives some additional guidelines. In my opinion, there is nothing wrong with fixing tariffs and only maintaining this objective for some heavy vehicles and for some roads – just for transporting goods, in short – because at the end of the day something is achieved. At the same time, the report suggests guidelines as to the possibility of having different tariffs to take into account congestion and pollution and to encourage a shift to other modes of transport. From this point of view, I feel that the route chosen is positive and should be supported, including this relatively innovative concept, which is a concept upon which I believe we must carry out more work.The World Health Organisation sees a clear link between particulates and cardiovascular and respiratory diseases. This implies that we have a duty to intervene, including with a tariff instrument, to ensure that these problems are dealt with seriously.
Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, after what you have said I am satisfied that the great, but also difficult, debate on the future of the Union is in good hands with you. So, open that door as wide as possible in Laeken so that we can have a thorough debate. And, as a Fleming, I should like to ask you to ensure that, in this debate, the regions are finally able to play a role in the Union.As you quite rightly said, a radical intervention is necessary to make it clear to people how important the Union can be for them. But more is required than that. The Union must also work through, and carry to a conclusion, the decisions that it has taken and is still taking. And you have already mentioned a number of things. As a Liberal, I should like to stress a few more: the Tampere Summit , the rights and duties of the citizen and security. I am glad that you have said that it is high time that some impact was felt. That Tampere Summit is almost two years old. The Lisbon Summit was about achieving the most competitive and efficient economy in the world. It was a very liberal declaration, but the fire has gone out of it. I am glad that there are a few important liberalising issues on the table and that you have said that, during this Presidency, a few must be solved. The Gothenburg Summit of a few weeks ago was about sustainability, including the decision to comply with Kyoto. Therefore, the Commission must table a proposal as soon as possible on the trading of emission rights and, under your Presidency, something must be done as soon as possible with that proposal so that we can apply Kyoto in an economically feasible manner. That is of huge importance to the European economy, and certainly to the Flemish economy. The Feira Summit is my last example. At that summit, already over a year ago, a charter for small and medium-sized businesses was approved. The Union has had a policy on small and medium-sized businesses for such a long time, but the benefits of the Union sometimes seem very far off, especially for small businesses. People find it all too complicated, so give concrete form to a few of those provisions of the charter for small and medium-sized businesses. And if you implement a number of decisions where security, competition policy, small and medium-sized business policy and the environment are concerned, , you will increase the impact of Europe on people and we shall be able to say at the end of the year, as in the TV commercial: “a little pride can do no harm”.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I too first want to thank Mr Beysen for his excellent report. He has raised some important points, and our group supports his approach. The Commission is proposing that financial support for the trans-European networks must be stepped up. This is to be supported in order to foster the internal market in electricity and gas. As has been said here, it is also important to connect the new Member States to the internal market in energy. This point of view is also contained in the report adopted by Parliament on cross-border exchanges in electricity.It has also already been said here that the main responsibility for constructing and maintaining adequate energy networks lies with EU industry and business. In this sense the energy networks differ from the trans-European networks, which receive large amounts of public money. Network operators, however, have no interest in removing bottlenecks in the supply to their neighbours. For that reason, state intervention and EU aid to promote competition is well justified. Naturally we also have to see that aid does not distort competition and that it is used for the right purpose.Concentrating EU aid on priority projects will encourage the removal of bottlenecks and boost competition, giving consumers greater choice. In this way Europe’s own energy resources will be put to more effective use and the European economy will be given a boost.In developing the trans-European energy networks, account must also be taken of social and economic rapprochement. We also have to ensure networks are developed in island, peripheral and remote regions. If necessary we must provide support for connecting the networks in these regions to other networks. Following on from Union decisions, we also have to encourage the diversification of forms of energy and increase the use of renewable energy sources. We have to ensure that decentralised renewable energy can access the network at a reasonable cost.The recent massive storm damage was a reminder that we must insist on companies and industry being sufficiently prepared to repair damage speedily and restore networks in all regions of the Union.
Mr President, I have accepted both Amendment No 2 and Amendment No 3 tabled by Mr Pronk, in which he calls for the text to be amended and insists on the concept of development of the population rather than ageing of the population.The problem is that, insofar as we as the European Union are concerned, we cannot talk about development because we do not have genuine population development: the birth-rate is extremely low while the proportion of elderly people is increasing. Therefore, the proposal – which I think Mr Pronk has accepted – is to talk about a rise in the average age of the population, as this will avoid a concept which might appear negative and describe the notion in the most precise and most appropriate terms.(Parliament adopted the resolution)EXPLANATION OF VOTE
Mr President, I must point out that a linguistic correction needs to be made to the Italian text. As you know, this resolution was negotiated in English. In item 5, the expression ‘notably a directive’ is translated in Italian as ‘ad esempio una direttiva’ (‘for instance a directive’). I do not consider this appropriate and I think it should be corrected.
First of all, I should like to say that I, too, concur with what Mr Walter said. Of course it is not very logical for the Copenhagen European Council to say that an evaluation will take place in 2004 as to whether or not Turkey can become a member, and whether or not the negotiations can begin, while at the same time saying that Turkey can be put in Category 7: the pre-accession category.I have a question regarding heading 6 of the financial perspective. If I have understood correctly, you have not said anything about this. Has the Commission or the Council ever considered expanding the Guarantee Reserve in connection with the increased activities of the European Investment Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development in London, in the new Member States? My second question is as follows: there was always a monetary reserve, which had to do with the CAP, and especially with those countries which were not members of the euro zone. We are soon to be joined by ten countries, none of which is to be a member of the euro zone. Is the monetary reserve now no longer necessary, and what are the reasons for this?
Few issues so highlight the differences of cultural approach between Member States. I feel this report reflects a good consensus and I congratulate Mrs Giannakou-Koutsikou on the work that she has done in putting it together.I belong to a growing minority in the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party and also in this House which believes a radical change to our approach may be needed. Why? Quite apart from the ethical flaw in the prohibitionist argument – the state has no right to prevent a responsible adult from taking drugs – the fact is that prohibition is not working. Our approach, which is based on controlling the supply of drugs, is using up massive resources. The police in Bristol in my constituency tell me that 85% of all crime is drug-related. This is destroying our inner cities, where drug dealers find a large market and sometimes even become role models for disenchanted young people. It is filling our prisons with people who need care rather than incarceration, and it discriminates disproportionately against ethnic minorities, some of which have cultures in which drug abuse is less frowned upon than in others. But, more importantly, it is helping to fund other forms of criminal activity and strengthening international organised crime.We need at least to consider switching resources away from attacking the supply of drugs and towards attacking demand.(Applause)
Mr President, it was Mrs Malmström and myself who wrote the reports on human rights last year. We are very pleased that the approach adopted then has been carried forward into the reports we are discussing today. We Liberals support Mr Cornillet’s desire for the new charter of human rights to be a model and criterion of relevance for this Parliament’s work on human rights. Like human rights watchdogs, we can make use of the charter even before it acquires formal status, and we can at the same time acquire a much needed means of opposing that watering down of the concept of human rights that threatens to turn the latter into everything and nothing. There has, of course, been a tendency in this Parliament to make every conceivable subject from the party programmes into human rights issues. It happens with the best of intentions, but it damages human rights because it makes citizens who disagree about one point or another say, ‘f those are human rights, then we are opposed to them.’The whole Austria business did a lot of damage, because it was all about opinions and suppositions. If, instead, it had been about specific breaches of the charter of human rights, there would have been a lot of sympathy for the action. That is why we here in Parliament must make the charter central. We must guard it like watchdogs. We must use it in such a way as to resist its being watered down by do-gooders. That is why we Liberals are voting against almost all the amendments: not because we disagree with the intentions behind the amendments, but because we attach too much importance to human rights to be a party to using them to adorn every conceivable point of view that does not fall within the charter’s human rights criterion. As I say, however, we warmly support the two reports as they stand, except with regard to just a few points, and we are grateful for the fact that we have in this way acquired a better organised treatment of human rights for the future.
Mr President, as I was coming to Parliament this morning I remembered the night I sat by my father's bedside looking at his wasted body as the lung cancer finally claimed him. I am sure I am not the only person in this Parliament to have lost friends or family through smoking.The fact is that if the laws on drugs which apply in most countries across the European Union were applied consistently, then tobacco manufacturers would all be locked up behind bars and condemned as murderers for deliberately making their products addictive. Yet when it comes to the greatest killer drug of all, we apply different rules. There is no consistency and we say that people should be allowed to choose for themselves. As a Liberal, I agree with that position: people should be allowed to choose for themselves. However, everything possible must be done to ensure that those decisions are made with full knowledge of the consequences.The manufacturers say that everyone knows the risks already; that there is no need to increase the size of the health warnings, and that they certainly should not adopt the sort of proposal I am putting forward, to supplement the health warnings with some hard-hitting pictures to drive home the consequences.Frankly, the manufacturers have an addiction of their own: an addiction to trying to mislead us. If the rules on advertising were changed, manufacturers would grasp the opportunity to promote their products in every possible way, because they believe that advertising works. And we should accept that fact: advertising does work. We should seek to turn the tables on them. We should seek to ensure that the cigarette packs themselves are turned into instruments to promote health, not death. We should follow the Canadian example and ensure that advertising is used effectively. And the bigger the better.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of theI would like to support the position expressed by the Chairperson of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs on the issue we are debating.I am pleased that Commissioner Bolkestein has said that he is willing to discuss the content of the proposed synthesis report in committee, since it must be the basis for a discussion at a meeting which we hope will be very important and which will take place in my city and the city of the President for this sitting. We therefore have a special interest in Barcelona being a genuine success and that it be remembered as a truly significant advance in terms of the commitments we have been taking on since the meeting in Lisbon last year.I would like to insist on one aspect which both the Commission and thehave been highlighting. This is the need to consolidate and clarify the mechanisms and objectives in the field of economic and monetary policy. There is a degree of confusion, as you know, and this has been discussed both in the Commission and in this House, between the Europe of the euro (which, as the Commissioner has said, is now close to completing its final stage with the introduction of notes and coins), the external representation of the euro and, on the other hand, the system for adopting decisions in the field of economic and monetary policy. We know that this situation is unsatisfactory and the current crisis highlights this.We hope that the present situation can be genuinely overcome, in the way that Commissioner Bolkestein’s colleague, Commissioner Solbes, has often said optimistically. However, at the same time he has been obliged to lower the growth forecasts.I would therefore like to insist on this aspect and on another which the Commissioner has not mentioned and which I believe is very important within the various elements of Lisbon and their subsequent implementation: the training and technology element.Lisbon set the objective of a fully competitive society by 2010, in which we would be able to overcome our technological and scientific backwardness in comparison with the United States, which was the term of reference established in Lisbon. I believe that this is an element which also has to be introduced into this synthesis report, and at subsequent meetings views have been expressed in agreement with this.
Commissioner, you pointed out that a range of measures is required. As we have heard in this House, ice-strengthening is also required in certain marine areas. Is the Commission prepared to support this regulation’s introducing a binding condition concerning this matter? Or what other measures is the Commission prepared to take?
Madam President, we too welcome the Cunha report, which we support. The statistics show that approximately 130 000 farmers and around 400 000 seasonal workers are involved in tobacco growing, in addition to all those involved in the production chain. This is therefore a serious matter which we feel requires greater analysis on the part of the Commission, not least in the light of Communication No 264 of 15 May 2001, which contains a clear statement to the effect that, should the Commission decide on a political proposal for action, all the repercussions and implications of this strategy for tobacco growing and the reduction of aid to growers would, indeed, be assessed.For this reason and also for the reasons expounded by other Members regarding the limited actual effect the measure would have on cigarette consumption, as regards the issue of smoking, it is therefore important, moreover, to preserve the research fund, particularly for agronomic research on broad-leaf tobacco, for that represents our only hope if we are to reduce the harmful effects of smoking and contribute to the right of all consumers to health too.
Mr President, I am not a particular friend of the Bush government, but I would take this opportunity to congratulate and thank the Americans and the coalition for the military action in Iraq. It was swift and effective and succeeded in its purpose of removing of an evil regime. The terrible consequences for the whole of the Middle East foreseen by some in this plenary did not arise.Having thanked the Americans, it is time to tell them that we do not expect them to stay in Iraq for one hour longer than is necessary. I am confident that they share this view, and it is my hope that the United Nations will play the dominant role in post-war Iraq.The European Union too has a role to play in Iraq in the months to come – the role of supporting democratic development in order to stabilise the whole region. We can draw on the experiences of the Union's efforts in Afghanistan and I look forward to seeing a united Europe behind this new, big challenge in Iraq, starting with the lifting of sanctions.
Why do 800 million people still have an empty stomach? Because leaders everywhere leave a great deal to be desired. In principle, there is food for everyone. There is no shortage of objectives and good intentions. The fewer results are yielded, the more summit meetings are organised which do nothing but conclude that policy must be intensified.Who is to blame, the rich countries or the poor ones? Both, Mr President. The developed states are hypocritical. Despite fine declarations of intent, they carry on over-subsidising their own agriculture and protecting their own market. The liberalisation of the world market is not obstructed by Europe alone, but also by America and other large agricultural states. Western companies continue to exploit their patent monopolies on techniques and crops, development cooperation focuses too little on agriculture and technological expertise is not passed on.Developing countries also leave a great deal to be desired. Although most people live in rural areas, too little attention is given to food production. Famines can really not only be ascribed to the climate or high toll barriers; endless wars, treating nature in an irresponsible manner, extreme population growth, over-urbanisation, inadequate infrastructure, but also corruption and mismanagement, in particular, stand in the way of sound agriculture. Products are imported in order to feed cities bursting at the seams; there is too little regional trade and a great deal of monoculture. Military expenditure for rulers is at the expense of affordable food for the people.Solemn statements and reiterations of earlier conclusions are not expressions of real political will, but rather attempts at concealing its absence. Hungry people have lost their appetite for them. They are fed up to the back teeth of fine words.
Mr President, Moldova’s internal political situation has deteriorated fast since Parliament’s delegation visited the country last autumn. Then it seemed that social and economic reform in Moldova was making headway despite the many difficulties and obstacles. Now the news from Moldova is that the principles of human rights and the rule of law have been violated, the people’s democratic right to stage demonstrations has been disregarded, and, furthermore, restrictions have been placed on the activities of the media.Members of Parliament are particularly worried about the disappearances of Moldova’s opposition leaders, which sparked unrest there. We have reason to fear that there is a connection between these disappearances and the country’s political problems. We obviously hope that everything possible will be done to find the disappeared persons unharmed, and that an independent and thorough study will solve the mystery surrounding these cases.The motion for a resolution quite rightly calls on the Moldovan government to adhere to the rules and procedures of democracy, and give an assurance that it will respect the principles of human rights and the rule of law. The Moldovan Parliament must also revise its decision to abolish the parliamentary inviolability of members of the opposition and desist from any renewed suppression of that inviolability. It also has to be made clear to the ruling party that it cannot abuse the powers it has to disband the opposition.When considering Moldova’s problems we have to remember that the country’s economy has collapsed since the break-up of the Soviet Union. Poverty and sluggish social reform have led to an increase in crime and the growth of the shadow economy. The internal political situation is being aggravated further by the problem of Transnistria. A return to socio-political stability and a regard for human rights and the rule of law will also be vital if the country’s economic problems are to be resolved.I think it is important that the European Parliament clearly states its position to the Moldovan Parliament and government, as well as the party in power there, which is what is being done in this motion for a resolution.
Last month when I asked a supplementary question in Question Time, this President-in-Office simply avoided giving me a supplementary by saying: 'I can only repeat my previous answer' and reading out the previous answer again. This time I will give him a chance not to read out the previous answer but ask him for an undertaking and an agreement. Does the President-in-Office agree that there should be no decision made on this proposal until there has been a full impact assessment of the effect on the Union, the ACP countries and the LDC countries? Yes or no?
Mr President, I should like to thank the MEPs – the rapporteurs – who have done so much work in order to put a coherent package on the table; because that is what the finished product is. Since last week, I have been able to see with my own eyes that it is indeed possible to do business on the railways in Europe. I visited a private company in Rotterdam that now transports half of its containers by rail: that means a 50% market share compared to the old monopolists that are stuck in their ways. The entry of private entrepreneurs into the market has therefore contributed towards halting the comparative loss of a mode of transport. We must therefore encourage more private players to invest in the use of the railways, so as to secure their future as an alternative mode of transport. I admire and endorse Mr Jarzembowski’s commitment to going the full distance with the railways and also to the aspiration of liberalising passenger transport by 2008. I do hope that the Council adopts this. I should also like to warn, however, that in so doing we must not hinder a number of countries from liberalising freight transport. Here, I am referring in particular to countries such as France and Belgium: although their organisations are investing abroad, they do not permit foreign undertakings to develop activities on their railways. I hope that, by January 2006, that will be a thing of the past, and I do believe that it will. Safety and interoperability go hand in hand, and are also the most important reason why the railways have the potential to be a good, quick and competitive mode of transport compared to road transport. For that to be the case, however, a great deal will have to change.I have observed that a train travelling from the Netherlands to southern Germany – through two countries and three Bundesländer – has seven changes of locomotive. It is absolutely ridiculous that this is supposed to be the alternative to road transport. I am happy, therefore, that there is an excellent proposal on the table here that will enable us to eradicate conditions such as these. It will enable us to ensure that we have uniform training throughout Europe, a single, recognisable, system, which is accessible and also promotes through-travel; thus increasing the real speed of freight railways, and, with it, safety and reliability.I should like to advocate that a great deal of attention be paid to the interconnection of route plans at international level, therefore. This will clear the way for those wishing to travel by rail to be able to do so. This would necessitate interconnection of routes. Such things must not be organised separately for each Bundesland and each country. An all-encompassing, integrated approach is required, and I think that it is extremely important that this proposal is on the table. In my opinion, this issue of safety and interoperability presents us with a very good chance of making the railways an attractive mode of transport, alongside road transport and also alongside transport over water. I think that this represents a step that is of considerable importance to freight transport throughout Europe.
I too would like to compliment Mr Hudghton on his report and to endorse his additions to the original proposal in relation both to the matter of compensation and encouragement of vaccine development. I too agree that Amendments 7 to 13 are unfortunate, indeed Amendment 13 would not merely negate the intended effects of the proposal but actually would make the situation even more difficult than under current rules.This is not though to deny the importance of environmental considerations in relation to fish farming. Mr Hudghton has already referred to the final report of the UK joint government industry working group on ISA and the measures there are of relevance for fish farming wherever it happens, not just in farms affected by ISA. Secondly, looking forward to the motion for a resolution on the Katiforis report later this evening, paragraph 28 is of particular importance. This calls on the Commission and Member States to step up the adoption of measures to combat the possible negative effects of aquaculture on the marine environment. Thirdly, referring to the earlier discussion on the collection of fisheries data, I very much hope that the Commission will engage in projects and studies looking at aquaculture in the environmental context but I believe that is the way forward in relation to the environment, not the way that is suggested in Amendments 7 to 13, and I hope honourable Members will reject them.
Mr President, Commissioner, the future belongs to the young. This well-known [Dutch] expression perfectly embodies the spirit of the Socrates programme. Europe is the future and in order to achieve this future, we need the young. They need to get to know each other and gain an understanding of each other’s cultures and how better can this be achieved than by studying together, having fun together and by learning each other’s languages. In this way, we can achieve more understanding and solidarity among the young within the European Union.Mr President, this is important now but this will certainly be important in the future too, with a view to enlargement. I would therefore like to touch upon two additional aspects which have been highlighted in a conciliation.Firstly, I am delighted that we have finally managed to convince the Council of the fact that more funding should be made available for such an important and successful programme. This is mainly thanks to the rapporteur, Mrs Pack, who I could not praise enough for her commitment and tenacity, in particular, and also you, of course, Mrs Reding, for the intelligent and frank remarks you contributed. It was not easy to make the Council see that, in view of the pending enlargement, this programme will be used a great deal more. But governing is all about anticipation and this means that, if necessary, the programme should be able to be adapted sooner if more countries would like to take part in it. I would hate to exclude the young from candidate countries.Secondly, I am pleased that the selection procedures for the projects too have been somewhat simplified, but there is more room for improvement. I hear many complaints about the fact that the application procedure is both complicated and lengthy.
Mr President, the Intergovernmental Conference mandate needs to be widened. The most important issue with regard to this is internal differentiation within the Union. It is unfortunate that there has been no serious consideration thus far here in Parliament of the issue of internal differentiation within the Union, which will, however, be necessary if the Union is to enlarge as planned. The Commission’s former president, Jacques Delors, has once again publicly raised the issue of a European Confederation. He has also said that the countries in the vanguard of integration should be able to proceed faster and that they should have their own institutions, for the sake of clarity. The Commission’s current President, Mr Prodi, and the High Representative, Mr Solana, have put forward ideas along the same lines.Last November, the Group of the European Liberal Democrat and Reform Party adopted a position on internal differentiation within the Union when it proposed a system of concentric rings for Europe: the onion skin model. In the next resolution on the IGC, Parliament must take a long and hard look at the questions of differentiation and flexibility. Both enlargement and the achievements of integration will come under threat unless we can create a system of concentric rings, as proposed by the Group of the European Liberal Democrats and Reform Party.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say a few words about the enlargement of the European Union and about the relations with our new neighbours.This, the fifth enlargement of the European Union is, historically speaking, certainly one of the greatest challenges faced by the whole of Europe. Since 1 May we can say that there is no longer any reason to speak of a divided Europe, but of one united large European family, which must act according to common perceptions and rules. For this we also need the European Union’s Constitutional Treaty. Hopefully the drafting of the treaty will already be completed in June, since only then can we continue as the world’s most dynamic economic and political union.Enlargement has also given the European Union many new neighbours. Estonia, having spent many long years in the Soviet Union against its will, as a member of the European Union now has Russia as its direct neighbour, followed by Belarus, Ukraine and Moldova further to the south.Ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful for having been given the opportunity to spend a year as an observer in the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party in the European Parliament and in the Committee on Development and Cooperation, one of whose priorities is relations with the European Union’s neighbouring countries, and I would like to continue working in this committee. As a liberal, I wish to continue to support the European Union’s commitment to promote the development of democracy and press freedom in Ukraine, Belarus, Moldova, and particularly in Russia. Estonia is a good example to them of the transition to a European country. Our experiences are necessary for the creation of a new and democratic Europe. Our investment in the development of our new neighbours is essential, since the existence of democratic neighbours is a complimentary security guarantee for the European Union itself, and fruitful mutual cooperation is a foundation for the future.I therefore await with interest the new development strategy for the European Union’s neighbourhood policy due to be drafted shortly.
Mr President, the interested citizen who wants to know how the EU is run is scarcely going to pore over the Treaty of Amsterdam as bedtime reading. If by chance she should nonetheless do so, it is doubtful if she would be any the wiser. Not even very committed EU cognoscenti could easily plough through those Treaties which in fact regulate a whole range of our common activities here in Europe.The Treaties are difficult to understand, at times contradictory, difficult to read and uninspiring. Beautiful and important European values are jumbled together with technical clauses in an unholy mess. This is really quite unacceptable. If we want to increase knowledge about the European project, as well as commitment to it, there is a minimum requirement that it must be simple to find out how the Union is run and why it is run in that way. That is not the case today, a fact which Mr Duhamel’s report does an excellent job of bringing out.Following the Nice Summit, which we all hope will be successful, it is important to take this next step in order to create a more democratic Union. It is time to review the Treaties. For my group, the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, it is important that, to begin with, the European Treaties should be made more citizen-friendly. This means simplifying, rearranging and pruning them. The proposal from the Florence institute suggests a place to start, but the next step is to create a proper European constitution.The people of Europe need, deserve and, according to opinion polls, want a common constitution clearly expressing the EU’s values and objectives and clarifying the division of power and responsibility both between the institutions and between the institutions and the Member States. People’s rights ought to be regulated by incorporating the conclusions from the Convention. This is an exciting process. It is certainly not simple, but it is incredibly important. Naturally, people must be enabled to participate in this work, especially citizens of the candidate countries which will hopefully be members in a few years’ time.The work must under no circumstances be used as an excuse to delay enlargement. A constitution is a matter for the whole of Europe. Work on the constitution ought to be informed by an ambition both to simplify matters and to remove some of the tasks carried out by the EU. This is necessary if the EU is to be able to function in the future. A clearer distribution of powers is required, as well as a clearer definition of the subsidiarity principle.We learned a very great deal from the work of the Convention. It is a working method which, with certain changes, ought to be used to give people a still more important place in the process. A future European constitution must not be a product off the Brussels drawing board.Vaclav Havel said in this Chamber, and Commissioner Barnier quoted him recently, that he wanted to see a European constitution which could be handed out to, and understood by, every eleven year-old in Europe. I think that is a very commendable objective. The decision to embark upon the work must be taken today. It is a hopeful sign that the French Presidency is favourably disposed to this. I shall now do what I can to convince my fellow countrymen to run with the ball during Sweden’s Presidency.
Madam President, hundreds of thousands of people die each year from the use of perfectly legal drugs. Yet we subsidise the growing of tobacco plants while we cut down cannabis plants. It is all complete nonsense.The truth is that prohibition lies at the very heart of many of our problems. Prohibition creates huge profits for criminals, who seek to extend their market. Prohibition fosters corruption and theft. Prohibition denies drug users the information about content that is available to everyone who enjoys an alcohol drink in the evening. If health messages are to work and society is to be protected we must replace prohibition with government regulation. The criminals must be denied their profits if we are to bring these problems under control.This paper is an excellent step forward. It ignores the moral outrage which has been expressed so often in the past. It concentrates on pragmatic and sensible steps to inform people and reduce harm. It is in complete contrast to the Swedish approach, which I find utterly appalling. As Mr Bowis said, just saying 'no' does not work - it certainly does not work in most of the societies in which we live. The idea that we should try and prevent needle exchanges, for example, will simply mean more deaths, more blood poisoning, more AIDS. It is a vicious and cruel approach.
Mr President, it would appear to me from the vote and from the report that, in fact, we have rejected the Council's proposal.(Applause)
Mr President, Commissioner, Mr Evans and Mr Karas have highlighted the significance of state aids and competition policy very clearly in this debate. In future we must remember that there are national aid schemes, in respect of internal competition, for example, which are especially important and valuable in countries with low population densities and where distances are long. I wish to raise one issue in this regard, that of transport aid. I am thinking here of my own country, for example, where the distances are long. In the north the price of fuel is 0.2 euros higher than in southern Finland. In addition, shipments of raw materials, animal feedingstuffs and similar goods are especially important as far as internal competition is concerned and issues of major importance in order that state aids may continue to support them. They are especially significant with regard to the regional economy and employment, and I hope that in future this can be made clear, so that these aids, these internal aids, which affect regional development and the regional economy, in which transport aid is a key example, might continue.
What can Europe do when it is time to make decisions on the Iraqi crisis? I say Europe, Mr President, rather than Parliament or the Council or the Commission, and I am thinking of the European people, who are overwhelmingly against a war to disarm Iraq, let alone a war to change the Iraqi regime.The European Council of 17 February took a stand: war should only be a very last resort and, anyway, there should be no war without a specific United Nations mandate. Let us remember: Parliament adopted a resolution calling on the Security Council to act against Saddam Hussein because of the terrible crimes he has committed against humanity. We strongly reaffirm this, because that dictatorship has left an appalling trail of blood in its wake. That is why Iraq must be disarmed, but only through the UN; the democratisation of Iraq must be supported, but only through the UN. Unilateral war will split the UN; it will split the Atlantic Alliance; and it will throw Europe into crisis. We say to some of our European brothers that a vote in the Security Council contrary to the Brussels document, contrary to the will of Parliament and contrary to the Commission’s opinion would strike at the heart of Europe. Article 19 of the Treaty on European Union lays down that the Member States that are also permanent members of the Security Council should ensure that the positions and interests of the Union are upheld. What happened in the case of the former Yugoslavia? The Security Council could not decide on intervention in Kosovo, but NATO carried it out with the agreement of the European Council.Also in question are the authority and prestige of our friend and ally, the United States, and also the brotherhood between our peoples, never so close as after 11 September, but today never so threatened on the eve of an unnecessary, unjust and unlawful war. The United States should realise that the people’s elected representatives meeting here are fighting against anti-Americanism and therefore ask the United States to show more respect for Europe’s ideas and convictions.Mr President, if Iraq is disarmed without war, it will be a victory for reason, a victory for the UN, and also a victory for the military pressure of the United States and the UK and for the endeavour to oppose unilateralism by France, Germany and Europe. If there is war, it will be a disaster. Let us unite, therefore, against the dictatorship of Saddam Hussein and for the freedom of the Iraqi people; let us keep war away from the young …(The President cut off the speaker)
Commissioner, thank you for your contribution. I would urge you not to falter with regard to the non-vaccination policy pursued by the Commission since the beginning of the 1990s. I should like to ask you, Commissioner, if it is not correct that, when we implemented the single market in 1992, there was an agreement that the national veterinary borders should apply in the event of a disease breaking out in any of the Member States. If this is the case, I would urge the Commission, including you and the Commissioner for Trade, to make a far greater effort to ensure that some of the countries which really depend on exports to non-EU countries – and here I am thinking primarily of Denmark – will again be able to export to the United States, Japan, Russia and the many other countries which have stopped their imports from the EU, an action which is basically a technical trade barrier.
Mr President, the floods that put Central Europe under such immense strain this summer were a huge natural catastrophe. The financial losses were colossal. The floods caused fatalities, injuries and distress. In such circumstances the European Union also has an obligation to help. For that reason, my group, the, supports the Commission’s actions and plans to help flood victims and help finance reconstruction, and is calling for a vigorous programme of further action.The distribution of competence means the EU’s responsibility is greatest in the area of agriculture. Thus, the measures the Commission has taken to bring forward payments of direct agricultural aid are right, as are their other plans. The  Group furthermore believes the following measures are also the right ones: the partial reprogramming of the Structural Funds, a temporary increase in Community funding, and channelling the performance reserve to the flood area. There is also every reason to use the TEN funds for the reconstruction work. Action to help candidate countries also has the support of our group. It must be made possible to use the emergency aid reserve in the budget to repair the damage.Our group is in favour of establishing a European emergency aid fund. Technically it may be appropriate to establish it in accordance with a flexible instrument. Its purpose would have to be clearly defined and the rules made clear. Compensation would mainly have to come from the Member State’s national share and insurance companies. Our group is prepared to promote the fastest possible implementation of legislation and technical preparation concerning this fund.It is important that the European Union should make a more intensive effort to overcome climatic change, implement the Kyoto agreement and reduce greenhouse gases. It is important to promote the use of renewable energy sources. At the same time, we need to consider the risk of natural disasters, such as flooding, at different levels of the social structure, and try to reduce them.
Mr President, on a point of order, I would not dream of trying to bounce you into making an announcement, but I am offering advice. You will find that, certainly in the committee, when the two Groups called for a separate vote in order to keep the amendments on the plenary agenda, they did not vote against a single one. Although the Rules of Procedure allow any Group to call for a separate vote on any amendment, we ought to try and flush out which ones they wish to vote truly separately on. I do not think we will find that there is a single negative vote in the two Groups against the amendments. There is a high degree of collusion, as others have said, in terms of one Group calling for split votes on all the others' amendments and that Group calling for split votes on all their colleagues' amendments. It is an attempt to subvert democracy and filibuster to a degree which is ludicrous.Mr President, you have your responsibilities, but you and your services are in danger of being subverted.
Chairman of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs. – Mr President, this first vote on our order paper today relates to the request from the Commission for urgent procedure on the measure you have outlined.In exceptional circumstances, following the attack on the Twin Towers and the Pentagon, the Committee on Citizens' Freedom and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs met this morning and approved, without report, the proposal submitted to us. I understand that we will also receive, following this morning's Coreper meeting, a request from the Council for urgency, to add to that from the Commission. It is the recommendation of the committee, which I have the honour to chair, that we accept that amendment.If that is approved by the House, I hope you will confirm that would give the political groups until 6 p.m. this evening to submit amendments to this proposed measure.
Mr President, Mr Stenmarck has drawn up a very rational and balanced estimate of Parliament’s estimated revenue and expenditure for the next financial year and my sincerest thanks go to him for that. The report also serves as a good basis for later discussion of the budget in the autumn.The 2003 budget is likely to be the last before EU enlargement. For that reason the rapporteur has set aside considerable sums of money for the new Member State’s admission to the EU. The rapporteur is proposing that EUR 32 million is needed for enlargement immediately and a further EUR 51 million for a special reserve. When we also take into consideration the 6 million euros reserved for observers and the extension of property reserve of 15 million euros it is my group’s opinion that sufficient funds have indeed been set aside for preparations for enlargement.The language issue is one of the hardest matters to deal with. Nearly every new Member State will also bring its own language to the European Union. For democracy to function properly it is vital that every EU citizen can stand as a candidate for election to the European Parliament without being required to be fluent in a foreign language. This places special demands on the European Parliament with regard to interpreting. All of us must be able to take part in the debate in our own mother tongue. On the other hand, it is virtually impossible to arrange for the smaller languages to be interpreted just through one interpreter. For example, Finnish is interpreted first into English, say, and only then into Greek. In my opinion, we should establish the practice of interpreting as many languages as possible, including the smaller ones, into the most important languages, that is to say, English, French and German. In this way Members could listen to the original speech in these languages as interpreted by just the one interpreter.Another crucial problem is the support of Parliament’s core activities. It is incomprehensible that the committees should be short of staff to carry out preparatory work at the same time as legislation work has increased. It is important to give more support to this basic work. Parliament must be capable of high standards in its treatment of matters, as, otherwise, the Commission and the Council will become too overbearing and above all because the quality of legislation will otherwise suffer.
Mr President, I do not wish to go into the content of this particular opinion poll, although it certainly would have been wise for the poll to have asked what people thought of the Palestinian State and of the Palestinian Liberation Organisation.It is not a bad thing, however, that people know what Europe thinks. I would, in general, encourage the Commission to publish information – of this or any other nature – on the views of Europeans, to show the importance of opinion on our continent.(Applause)
Mr President, the Council of the European Union has stated three times in its summit meetings that in the future agriculture will also be able to be practised in those regions that have special problems. Earning one’s living from agriculture has considerable importance for those regions, as there is a desire to keep the countryside alive and habitable. It also has its own cultural and environmental value.I think it important that any reform in rural policy should take account of the criteria which apply to northern agricultural areas. In my report I propose that the Commission should lay down clear definitions and criteria, based on climate, the length of the growing season, low population density and outlying position, so as to ensure that the permanent handicaps of northern agricultural regions can be taken into account. My basic premise is that the range of measures under the common agricultural policy must be developed in a way that takes the special conditions prevailing in northern agricultural areas into greater consideration. One idea is to regionalise the CAP and make it more flexible, so that it can identify more effectively than at present the preconditions required to enable farms operating in different areas to compete on an equal footing in the single market.(Parliament adopted the resolution)***Report (A5-0471/2003) by Mrs Almeida Garrett, on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, on the communication from the Commission: 'The operating framework for the European regulatory agencies' (COM(2002) 718 – 2003/2089(INI))(Parliament adopted the resolution)***
Mr President, I would still like to raise a couple of points. Employment is an important issue. Unemployment is on the increase in the EU. It is in small and medium-sized enterprises in particular that jobs are created. Unfortunately, fear of distorting competition often hinders even rational action. For that reason, competition law should be interpreted more freely in the case of small and medium-sized enterprises. This would mean, for example, that the Structural Funds could be used more effectively to prevent unemployment.The Northern Dimension is a major premise in the political field. The Commission has mainly focused on two issues: environmental protection and nuclear safety. We would like to extend this list. The Northern Dimension offers immense potential in the area of energy policy. The natural gas deposits in the Arctic Ocean will be of vital importance to the EU in the future. We should just ensure that the links that are to be built should, as far as possible, pass through EU territory. The Northern Dimension also offers immense scope for cooperation in the field of cultural and research policy and higher education.The  is strongly in favour of reforming the Commission’s administration and pruning bureaucracy. The importance of that was reflected in the debate on the Structural Funds. Administrative costs should be in reasonable proportion to the operating appropriations used.
Mr President, what should Biarritz do with the Charter? It should clarify what it means by proclamation. What is a proclamation? Perhaps it is a glass of champagne and a string quartet, perhaps it is the first building block of Europe's constitution, but all this should be clarified. Parliaments are not used to proclaiming things.Secondly, Biarritz should reconsider the question of the European Union signing up to the existing European Convention.Thirdly, it should consider future revision and a procedure for revising the clauses of the Charter in future.Finally, it should request the Commission to launch a widespread campaign to inform the public of this great project.
Mr President, on behalf of theI should like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Schwaiger, on his outstanding efforts in forging a broad cross-party approach to this hugely important issue, which will have consequences for us all for many years to come.The  remains unambiguously supportive of further trade liberalisation, of the strengthening of the multilateral trade system and of a broadly based negotiation covering a wide range of existing and new trade matters. Our hope is that this report, when adopted by Parliament tomorrow, will serve as a clear signal of our political backing for a comprehensive round at a crucial stage in the preparations for Seattle.This Parliament also has a central role in allaying legitimate public fears about the consequences of globalisation. In some quarters a misplaced view has arisen that the WTO is a malign agent for all the negative effects of globalisation. In truth, without the WTO we would be unable to construct the global legal and regulatory architecture which is indispensable to any coherent political response to globalisation. Without the WTO the law of the jungle and the power of might over right would prevail – hardly an outcome the critics of the WTO would welcome.For these reasons we have been active in tabling a series of amendments to the report, pushing for the development of new WTO rules in areas such as the environment, now directly affected by international trade policy. We have supported all efforts to strengthen the place of developing countries in the world trade system, not least by underlining the inescapable need for continued reform of the EU’s common agricultural policy.We have also pushed, and will continue to do so, to ensure the WTO is more transparent and the European Commission more accountable to the European Parliament in the conduct of trade policy. This must include, as a minimum, an automatic Parliamentary right to subject any WTO deal to assent and much greater access to the negotiating briefs discussed within the Council. At the same time the  has resisted all attempts to burden this report with a shopping list of sector-specific requests. That is why tomorrow we will vote against those sections of the report which call for exceptional treatment for particular sectors. We must accept the consequences of our support for a comprehensive trade round. Comprehensive means all-encompassing; it does not mean riddled with exceptions.Finally, a word on China. Late on Sunday night a bilateral deal was struck between the US and China on China’s accession to the WTO. China’s entry into the WTO will, arguably, have as far-reaching an effect as anything which will take place in Seattle. It is impossible to separate the question of China’s accession to the WTO from our wider consideration of the EU’s position in Seattle.The EU is in a delicate position as the last major WTO player not to have concluded a deal with China. An optimistic interpretation would suggest that Europe is now in a strong position to exploit and build on the concessions already secured from China by Washington. However, the fact that European Commission negotiating officials were reported a mere week before the US deal as discounting the likelihood of Chinese accession any time soon may suggest that the European Union has not been negotiating as convincingly as might be hoped. There is clearly a risk that Europe will now be forced into a corner in the talks with China.The  has always strongly supported Chinese accession to the WTO but not at the cost of legitimate European interests, which do not always converge with American commercial interests. I therefore call on the Commission to give an urgent account of the Chinese accession talks to Parliament, and particularly as to how they may affect our preparations for Seattle, so that Parliament can vote tomorrow on Mr Schwaiger’s report in full command of all the relevant facts.With these important caveats in mind, I would like to confirm the ’s broad support for Mr Schwaiger’s work and reiterate our warm thanks to him.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the particular importance of this report is clearly apparent right from the Commissioner’s introductory explanatory comments. As a result of congestion and insufficient joint activity, certain Member States can now only profit to a limited extent from the advantages of the open markets, meaning that competitive advantages for consumers are becoming increasingly smaller. The European Commission is therefore right to propose a reform of the guidelines for Trans-European Networks in the energy sector.The revised proposal takes account of the liberalisation of the energy markets, the increasing external dependence on energy and the stricter requirements to get sustainable sources of energy accepted. These are the objectives which have been emphasised by the political leaders on the European Councils of Stockholm and Barcelona. Concentration on a new list of priority projects forms the core of this proposal. Member States will give special support and attention to these projects. The maximum percentage for co-financing will be increased from 10% to 20% and from now on the construction phase will take precedence.The question which immediately comes to mind is whether this is the best solution. In my opinion, a massive subsidy for the energy sector is not a good solution because I feel that it is at variance with the current trend towards liberalisation and the creation of a competitive internal market. It must be emphasised that the main responsibility lies with the energy sector and with the industry itself. Measures which are taken on the basis of this decision may in no way be allowed to cause disruption of competitive practices within the internal energy market. I also feel that Community aid should only relate to the design phase. Subsidies for the construction phase such as proposed by the Commission should then only be granted in exceptional cases. In this context, the integration of renewable energy sources constitutes an important factor. In my opinion, these will contribute in future to the diversification of energy sources and thus as such to the continuity of energy provision within the European Union. Support of tangible projects such as off-shore wind parks should therefore be encouraged.The way in which the Commission wants to implement all this does give rise to a number of questions. I think it is not a good idea to give the European Parliament a droit de regard only when the issues concern strategically important changes to project specifications. It is important to seek a balance between, on the one hand, a quick reaction by the Commission to new developments and, on the other hand, the need for effective control by Parliament. To satisfy the need for transparency, the Commission needs to submit regular reports.Finally I would like to emphasise that actual measures will be necessary if we want to reap the rewards of the internal market. In fact, the new guidelines might significantly contribute towards coping with the problems of: the continuity of energy provision, the integration of renewable energy, the outermost regions as well as enlargement. I would like to clearly point out that Community aid must be applied pragmatically and that, in the first instance, accountability must be given to the energy sector itself.
Mr President, viewed apart, the problems facing Ambon have their own particular characteristics, yet at the same time there are certain similarities with the situation in East Timor and also in Aceh and other parts of Indonesia. It is the case with all these areas that we must not labour under the misapprehension that the international community is in a position to solve the problems. The international and European Community can only play a modest role. We must also avoid giving the local population the impression that when international institutions start getting involved everything will come right again. We must spare the local population the disappointment that this expectation could lead to. Of course this does not alter the fact that the situation in Ambon is serious. Our first priority is to remain vigilant and endeavour to find a solution, but we must not add fuel to the fire. In my view, the resolution produced contains all the necessary ingredients. We might consider modifying the religious aspect slightly but, even without such a shift of emphasis, this resolution makes it adequately clear that the European Parliament attaches great importance to preventing a similar situation from arising in Ambon as arose in East Timor.
Mr President, I thank Mr Peres for the work he has done and especially for his willingness to receive proposals and suggestions; I thank the Commission for having done such a thorough job; and I thank the Committee on Agriculture for having unanimously approved the amendments tabled. This means there may be a unanimous vote in Parliament tomorrow, and there is hope that a strong proposal may reach the Council, strong because it is expressed by a unanimous Parliament.It is true that in the debate about the reform of the common agricultural policy, which is beginning to be discussed, the conviction is emerging from many parts that in time aid for production will gradually be cut down. Producers are not frightened by this prospect as long as it is possible to sell on the market at a fair price. This objective can be pursued essentially in two ways: either by organising a promotion, information and consumer awareness campaign as well as advertising the product, which is the only way to make quality prevail on the market, or by preventing and discouraging fraud and adulteration. The latter is a problem that cannot be left just to the Member States, but one that the whole Union must face by understanding that it is responsible. The amendments tabled and approved are a step in this direction.Here I shall ask the Commission a formal question. With this resolution we are going to intervene in Regulation 1638/98. There is, however, an amendment which explicitly seeks an undertaking regarding Regulation 2815, the regulation which provides for the possibility of marketing oil without labelling and lays down the origin of the product linked to the place of pressing and not the place of harvesting. Commissioner Fischler gave me and Mr Lavarra an undertaking that at the time of the COM reform this Regulation too would somehow be eliminated or at least modified. The Regulation expires on 31 October 2001. My question is this: what is the Commission going to do? Does it intend to keep faith with this undertaking and also with this approved amendment which will surely be approved by Parliament tomorrow, and thus not renew this Regulation from November 2001 onwards, or change it in line with the wishes of the highest democratic assembly? We ask for an explicit undertaking by the Commission because while we are discussing and legally intervening in Regulation 1638 we do not want the other Regulation to go off in a different direction which does not allow for the possibility of its being legally amended.
Mr President, every year, the discharge is the highlight of the year in the Committee on Budgetary Control. I wish all rapporteurs every success in their work, and Mr Blak, in particular, who will probably ensure, for the first time in many years, that the Commission will be granted discharge on time. I hope I can congratulate him on that tomorrow. In fact, I also hope that he has enjoyed reading the answers to his questions. They turned out to be rather lengthy, and got the better of me at times.The hallmark of this budget is the fact that the Statement of Assurance is still not positive. This has to become positive, and Parliament must also be able to judge whether any progress is being made in that respect. We as a group support every effort to secure this Statement of Assurance and we believe that it should be extended to include every sector, or maybe to include every Directorate-General.I would like to make a few general points. The figures which we are familiar with show that agriculture is in a considerably better position than the other sections of the budget. That is very positive. Compared to the other sectors, agriculture can afford to present the margin of error of 3%, although this is probably still far too high. The Commission must apply this as soon as possible to the other sections of the policy, and other Commissioners must follow Mr Fischler’s lead.I would like to comment on the superlevy in agriculture. We all know the system of milk quota. All farmers in Europe pay extra if they produce too much milk. There is one country which forms an exception to this rule, namely Italy. The Italian government pays the levy on behalf of the farmers. Is this not a case of distortion of competition? Should the Commission not do something about this promptly?I am pleased with the Commissioner’s reply further to the Fléchard affair. Although we do not have all the facts of what happened between 1991-1994, there is every reason to believe that it was unacceptable. We are pleased with the fact that the present Commission has dissociated itself from this and that it is submitting proposals as soon as possible, which pertain, among other things, to the way in which the proportionality principle can be applied. What is the responsibility of the officials in this respect? When should it be assessed by the Commission or Commissioner himself, etc.? What are the exact procedures to be followed in those cases?There are still many ambiguities surrounding flax. What will be important for this Parliament is the question as to what will ultimately be the financial correction which the Commission will apply to the countries which are involved in this. This will probably not only affect Spain.My conclusion on behalf of the group is that we will be granting discharge. We are aware that this is the last year for which the Commission can say that it was not responsible. The real test for the current Commission will come with the examination of the accounts for 2000.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Court of Justice needs to be properly armed in order to be able to cope with the growing number of disputes, as well as its ever expanding authority. The Court must be able to focus on the real legal issues and legal protection of EU subjects. The Court of First Instance must be better accommodated in this framework, and both jurisdictions must be able to take more autonomous decisions regarding their own structures and procedures. Sound and timely administration of justice is a vital component of the constitutional state. In the light of this, the role of the European Parliament should be upgraded to that of a fully-fledged legislative body and that of a fully-fledged European institution.These are, in a nutshell, the motives underlying the opinion issued by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market. As rapporteur, I am also delighted to note that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is on the same wavelength for the greater part of its principal report. Unfortunately, time constraints prevent me from going into any detail. But in order to bring the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs as far as possible into line with the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, I tabled four more amendments in the plenary meeting. As some of these amendments are also to be found in the opinions of other committees, I believe that these amendments deserve – and will probably receive – the support of the entire Parliament.This is where I would like to conclude my brief report on a not unimportant contribution to what will probably be the last IGC before the largest, most historic and most risky enlargement since the inception of the present European integration process. This is why we need to seize this opportunity with both hands to prepare the European Union, with all its institutions and in all fields, to face the challenges of the 21st century successfully.
For many years, I have worked assiduously in Parliament for a Statute for Members and genuinely want it to be possible for such a Statute to enter into force before the next term of office.I note that, unfortunately, the majority of the European Parliament deliberately put the draft Statute into a form that, for understandable reasons, can hardly be approved by the Council. As the Commission observed in its opinion, the provisions concerning Members’ immunity exceed what it is possible to approve in this context.It would be tragic if the Statute were only to enter into force once a new constitutional treaty had entered into force – probably not until 2009 as far as Parliament is concerned. At the same time, an option was approved whereby new Member States might subsequently, during two terms of office, apply other rules. Parliament did not convince the surrounding world that it in actual fact wanted to help bring about a situation in which travel costs would in future be reimbursed on the basis of actual costs. In the vote, Parliament ruled out a state of affairs in which national taxation would be an option for countries that wanted this.If the Statute is to become a reality, Parliament must be prepared to negotiate concerning the final outcome. By voting ‘no’, I wish clearly to express the fact that Parliament is divided and that Parliament’s leaders should negotiate concerning the final outcome.– Turmes report (A5-0136/2003)
Mr President, first of all, following the example of previous speakers, I should like to congratulate our rapporteur, Mr Liese, for the high level of contact which he has maintained, right from the beginning, with all the parties concerned and, of course, with the various nominal rapporteurs, in order to produce this report, which represents an overall balance. This compromise was difficult to achieve, between the advocates of subsidiarity, the supporters of ethics at any price and all those, including myself, who want to respond to the expectations and hopes placed in us by millions of patients in Europe, without, however, hindering the development of the European biotechnology sector.Indeed, thanks to the grafting of corneas, heart valves, bones, tendons and skin, the lives of patients are actually prolonged and improved. Just to give one example, repairing the damage caused by major burns involves nearly twenty thousand European citizens every year, while 60 000 diabetics had to have amputations in 2002 because of the lack of any effective procedure for reconstructing skin. We must be clear about this: all these people awaiting treatment will either not be treated or will be badly treated if tomorrow the European Parliament adopts a moralistic stance and prohibits, directly or indirectly, research into stem cells, embryos and germ gene therapy. That is the reason why the majority of the Liberal group is firmly opposed to a good thirty of the amendments, in particular Amendments Nos 30, 31, 36, 37, 46 and 50, but I do not propose to list all of them here.One fundamental reminder is necessary: we are concerned here with a public-health issue, based on Article 152 of the Treaty. It is therefore a matter of quality criteria, approval standards, qualifications, staff training, traceability tests, and the setting up of a European network bringing together the registers of national tissue banks. This is what lies at the heart of the proposal, and I have heard very little about it, since ethical issues have overtaken it. Nevertheless, at the committee stage we did reach a compromise on organ donations, on the highly sensitive question of voluntary and non-remunerated donation, on umbilical cord blood donations and on fair access to the various treatments for all patients.We are determined not to let all these advances be reduced to nothing here because some people are confused between the European Parliament and the Council of Europe. It is not Europe’s objective or ambition to harmonise ethics, and having a conscience in matters of science has never treated anyone. For all these reasons, the Liberal group, in self-defence, reserves the right to vote against this report and to go back to the Commission’s balanced proposal.
Mr President, it was splendid to hear the Commissioner’s criticism of the Council when it comes to foreign policy. When we see a dictatorship in the Balkans superseded by the hope of democracy, we cannot lock ourselves into disputes about the Budget. Instead, the budget frameworks, – the so-called financial perspective – must be adjusted. We cannot simply take all the money from other areas of foreign policy. We have already this year exceeded the foreign policy budget by 400 million. Let us now be far-sighted enough to give the Commission the opportunity to plan ahead. Circumstances have also revealed the need for the so-called ‘rapid reaction facility’, as proposed by the Commission. The money must not be placed in the reserves with the risk of the Council’s blocking it, something which would of course lead to the Commission’s not being able to plan ahead. Remember Romano Prodi’s major speech in this Chamber a few weeks ago. We shall support his and Chris Patten’s attempt to strengthen the Commission’s effectiveness by means of parliamentary scrutiny and the necessary parliamentary control to which the Council and Mr Solana are not of course subject. I should therefore ask both the Council and the Committee on Budgets here in Parliament to think in terms of foreign policy and not only in terms of budget strategy when they concern themselves with foreign policy.
It is an important report which Parliament has voted on today. There are many uncertainties surrounding the use of genetically modified organisms, and there is good reason for being very careful. On important points, the Council has wished to introduce risk assessment, together with evaluation of the use of genetically modified organisms. The Directive guarantees a high level of protection.Where most of the points are concerned, I have been able to agree with the amendments tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy. Where other points are concerned, however, other measures can justifiably be demanded. In the case of genes expressing resistance to antibiotics, the Council’s position makes continued research possible under strict conditions based upon environmental considerations and respect for the consumer.Nothing is so enduring as the accidental. I therefore consider it very important to devise general regulations governing liability for environmental damage. Dealing separately with the GMO sector may lead to major differences in the regulations governing liability in different areas.When it comes to investigating the costs, together with the benefit to the public finances, of releasing genetically modified organisms into the environment, I have voted in favour of Amendment No 8 in order to guarantee continued discussion of how such an investigation ought to be carried out. I do not, however, believe that investigations of that kind can be carried out annually. The EU ought not, therefore, to become inundated with reports on the matter.
Madam President, Commissioner, I wish to express my sympathy with your country and your people at this difficult time.The key date will be 1 May 2004. It is then that the new Europe will be built. Unfortunately, our celebrations are commencing, however, with all the Member States erecting new walls to keep out those who wish to come from the new Member States to the 15 current Member States. That is extremely depressing. I believe that this can be avoided. I do not therefore share the Commissioner’s view.The basic conditions are so different from one Member State to the next. As long as we do not have a common welfare system, common funding and a common tax system, it is only sensible for us in the new, large EU to take account of different national viewpoints. Doing so will not in any way endanger freedom of movement for workers. On the contrary. What is important is that, through these changes, we reduce the need for transitional rules. No one will be discriminated against. The situation is the same for Poles, Germans and Danes.The two most generous benefits in Sweden – parental benefit and child allowance – are paid to everyone who has children in Sweden. They are not earnings-linked, but are funded through tax. Most other countries have already safeguarded themselves and entered many benefits among the derogations in the annex. I would therefore request the House’s full support for Amendments Nos 9 to 12.
We have abstained from voting on Amendments 8, 16, 26 and 45, as we do not think that these amendments sufficiently reflect a good balance between, on the one hand, an effective reporting obligation to combat money laundering and, on the other hand, an advocate’s/lawyer's duty of confidentiality to his/her client and the obligations that this entails.It is important that an advocate/lawyer should not be covered by the reporting obligation when he/she represents a client in a case. However, it is more difficult to determine in which situations a lawyer/advocate shall be subject to the reporting obligation when he/she has access to relevant information in relation to so-called legal advice. We think that lawyers/advocates should, to a certain extent, be exempt from the reporting obligation, but the proposals from both the Commission and Parliament are not sufficiently balanced or precise in this respect for us to be able to support them.Finally, we would like to point out that the proposal has certain deficiencies with respect to definitions that could lead to confusion. In the proposal, the words advocate, independent lawyer and lawyer are used without it being clear what the distinction between these terms is intended to be. It is important to emphasise that lawyers must be considered equal to advocates in those countries that do not have the compulsory employment of counsel.- Lehne report (A5-0179/2000)
Mr President, it is truly wonderful to know that enlargement is so well on track and that common agricultural policy reform will not hold up the entry of the fast track ten. The European Commission's regular report marks a critically important step for Romania, and, I would guess, for Bulgaria as well. Yet Romania has concerns that her own entry date may somehow be held up by the energy and commitment that we are putting into the first ten.From Parliament, we can send a clear signal of our intent by endorsing Romania's chosen target date of 1 January 2007. Yesterday, in the Foreign Affairs Committee, we agreed to do just that. I hope that this will be passed by Plenary too. After all, we in Parliament thought of the date of 2004 in the beginning, and the same date is appropriate for Bulgaria.Turning to Turkey, the EU is a secular group of institutions and therefore religion is no barrier to membership. I believe it would be a right and proper endorsement if we were able to send a signal to the new Turkish Government that if it fulfils the Copenhagen criteria of democratic values deeply entrenched and implemented in law, then perhaps the date of June 2004 would be appropriate for negotiations.My congratulations go to all of those concerned in the work to date.
Mr President, if there had been any doubt that this proposal for a directive were also about men and money, there was, in any case, no longer any such doubt when a number of jacket-clad men appeared on the rows furthest to the back during the discussion of this subject by the Committee on Women’s Rights and Equal Opportunities. It was quite legitimate that they should be there, but also very instructive because, when it boils down to it, the proposal is about rectifying a situation in which women pay more, and obtain less, than men when it comes to life assurance, pensions etc.When they came to my office with views opposed to the proposal, a number of insurance people said that they just wanted to see a fair system. It set me thinking about what is really meant by fairness. Their conception of fairness was obvious. It was quite fair that there should be solidarity among women and solidarity among men. This means, for example, that women who cannot have children have to pay for those who can, while, from this insurance point of view, the children’s fathers do not participate in any form of financial solidarity at all. I am of course in complete disagreement with the insurance industry. Equality is a fundamental principle in the EU. It is there in the existing Treaty and occurs again in the new draft constitutional treaty. It is also stated that the EU must take initiatives to remedy situations in which these principles are not being complied with.I should therefore like to thank the former Commissioner for the work she has done in this area, and I now hope that it will get through the European Parliament and, subsequently, the Council. I should like to say that, in my view, there is much more at stake than just this proposal, for it is in reality the future of the EU that is at issue. The proposal demonstrates whether there is a link between words and action. When women now look at the ‘family photo’, it is difficult for them to identify with the EU they see there. If – and this can perhaps be excused – we in the Commission, the Council and Parliament show that we cannot even remedy an area such as this, there is no chance of getting women also to vote in favour of the future EU.
Mr President, I should like to thank Mr Lamy for his interesting and helpful remarks this afternoon and to reiterate on behalf of the  Group our gratitude to him and his staff for the close cooperation which we successfully established in Seattle.One general remark if I may. Much has been said since Seattle about the procedural and organisational shortcomings of the WTO. Whilst all proposals to improve WTO procedures are naturally welcome, there is a danger that we might be embarking on the reinvention of the wheel. The WTO is an intergovernmental organisation with over 130 members, so it will remain, by definition, a somewhat cumbersome decision-making forum. That is, unfortunately, the unavoidable nature of the beast.A concentration on procedural and organisational issues should not blind us to one simple fact: if the political will had existed in Seattle, particularly within the US Administration, the procedural flaws of the system would have been overcome.Thus our primary task remains a political, not a technical one, namely to rehabilitate the public case for further trade liberalisation, not only for the benefit of European businesses and consumers, but most particularly because open trade offers the only viable long-term solution to poverty in a developing world. That is why the  Group hopes that the Commission, the Council and this Parliament will embark on a proactive attempt to remake the political case for further trade liberalisation in general and for a new comprehensive round, rather than an intermediate round, in particular.The EU/US Summit which takes place the day after tomorrow is exactly the right place to start since it is the US which has been found to be most politically wanting in recent weeks and months. The need for EU political leadership which was amply on display in Seattle in international trade affairs is now more acute than ever. Whilst to focus on procedural details is essential, no amount of organisational improvements will compensate for the biggest loss at Seattle, a loss of political conviction in the merits of open, multilateral rules-based trade liberalisation.
Madam President, I am afraid I must raise this issue again. In your letter of 14 July it appears to me that this House is putting Members' health below that of the state of the carpets. I was quite shocked to receive the letter to say that ashtrays will be put outside the Chamber, along with no smoking signs, because you have always been helpful in the past on this matter of smoking in this building.It is incredible to me that there are Parliament rules stating that there are no smoking areas yet we do not have a safe passage into this Chamber. I have just been diagnosed with deep vein thrombosis and the medication I am taking makes my asthma worse. I plead for a safe route from my office into this plenary session, not only for me but for other Members here who suffer from other breathing problems. I hope this will be put into place immediately because, otherwise, my health and other people's health will suffer. I hope you will look into it as a matter of urgency and remove all ashtrays from all the no smoking areas as a matter of course.(Applause)
Mr President, I would like to start by congratulating Mr Hernández Molar for the excellent work that he has done on this report and for the spirit of cooperation with which he has sought an all-party consensus behind his recommendations. I would like too to pay tribute to the work that the Commission has done in this area.We face a number of challenges in a world where the drive for emigration and the drive for immigration into Europe is still substantial. Clearly, we face a situation where there are push factors in countries of origin and pull factors in our own countries. It is important that we approach this debate with a very clear distinction between asylum and illegal immigration. It is important that we retain the commitment set out in the Geneva Convention and a humane approach.If I would pass one message to the governments of the Member States, it is that all too often they fall into the temptation to seek easy headlines by taking the populist approach to the so-called problems of asylum seekers and illegal immigration. Too rarely do they look to the principles to which they have signed up and try to deal with this problem seriously.This report sets out a number of proposals for action which are, in my view, to be welcomed. In particular it looks at immigration and at the inadequacy of current data. It looks at the problems of the action plans that have been drawn up which fail to strike the right balance between security and immigration. It looks at the policing of illegal immigration and calls for focus on combating trafficking and combating illegal employment. These are the things our Member States should be doing.And, of course, most importantly, it looks at budgets and the fact that under half of the measures proposed have budgetary allocations so that if we are to be serious about this, then an approach will be needed by the Council to give a legal base to the budgets which are being proposed.So in conclusion, Mr President, and on behalf of the, I welcome this report which we will vote on tomorrow.
We have abstained from voting on Mr Skinner’s report concerning minimum safety and health requirements for workers’ use of work equipment at work. This is an area in which the EU ought not to have so much influence.We are basically well disposed towards the European Union. As Swedish Liberals, we view European integration as an opportunity for finding solutions to cross-border problems concerning the environment, trade, movement across borders, human rights and conflict management. On these issues, the European Union gives Europe’s democracies a chance to show the world that cooperation leads to peace and increased prosperity. We also believe in the principle of subsidiarity, according to which decisions are to be made as close as possible to the people they affect. That is why we are actively pushing the issue of a constitution for the European Union, through which the distribution of responsibilities would be clear to everyone. It must be made perfectly clear to all citizens that the EU should stick to the issues it knows best, namely cross-border issues. All other questions ought to be dealt with at local, regional or national levels.We are convinced that it is not at EU level that legislation on, for example, how ladders are to be used in jobs above ground- or floor-level is best enacted. How scaffolding is to be erected and jobs carried out must be decided in the light of national conditions.For us, it is important that the EU should instead concentrate on a small number of areas in which it can really be of use. This is not one such area.
Mr President, I wish to inform the House of the appearance in the Spanish media last week of a document from the European Commission’s Environment Directorate-General on the Spanish Government’s National Hydrological Plan and its funding by the European Union.Specifically, this document states that the request presented by the Government overstates the demand for water and underestimates the cost of the work, that the alternatives to the diversion have not been properly analysed and that the protection of the Ebro Delta has not been properly provided for.The possible alternatives must be analysed, Mr President, water is necessary, but it is also scarce. The European Union must only fund projects which offer the necessary guarantees and which do not prejudice any of its inhabitants.
Mr President, Commissioner, today’s debate is really about a struggle between openness and secrecy. We are surprised at how much in terms of resources it is proposed should be allocated to this area, compared with how much the Commission has invested in turning the regulation on transparency into a reality. It is the lack of balance that surprises us.Naturally, the way in which the Commission interprets the regulation on transparency also surprises us. Parliament and the Commission do of course disagree about the Bavarian Lager case and about the way in which the Commission interprets the concept of data protection in that instance. That is why this issue is so difficult. As a Scandinavian citizen, I am also very disappointed at the fact that the Commission never refers to the supplementary clause, incorporated into Directive 95/46/EC on Sweden’s initiative and stating that account must always be taken of the public when processing personal data.I would also say to some of the participating MEPs here that there are forces in Sweden which believe that the law concerning personal data should be repealed. I myself have also had experience of not being able to obtain information from the Commission in terms specifically of the law on personal data when I wanted to know who had complained about my country to the Commission.I would also quote what our legal adviser said about why it may not perhaps be possible to publish the list of assistants, legal advisers and members of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market on the Net. The reason was as follows:(the speaker continued in French)There is a Regulation No 45/2001 relating to the protection of personal data. It is doubtless possible to be called before the judge by the European Data Protection Supervisor who has very wide powers, greater even than those of the European Ombudsman.(the speaker continued in Swedish)These are the facts. I hope that we shall support transparency and that, here in Parliament, we shall at least be able to question those proposed for the office in question.
Madam President, in my opinion, the issues addressed in this report are extremely important in strategic terms and also the most urgent of the European priorities: giving the Union the ability to act in the field of security and defence as well as in the field of combating terrorism, within the framework of a unified, coherent foreign policy. I therefore support the Morillon report and I will uphold all the proposals that give these policies more credibility and more weight: increasing national defence budgets within this Union perspective; allocating a proportion of the Union’s budget to supporting research and development; an integration programme to stop duplication and fragmentation; ad hoc cooperation or enhanced cooperation, should some Member states have legitimate grounds for not taking part in this undertaking; the transparent, effective integration of European defence into a renewed NATO and into the consolidated Atlantic Alliance, which must be preserved.After the very serious Iraq crisis, even those who did not support these goals before must stop burying their heads in the sand. A roadmap which is both practical and visionary must be proposed, as in the case of Monetary Union. The Convention, Madam President, must listen to the views of the majority of Europeans who, together with Parliament, are calling for a return to effective multilateralism and to a Europe which is capable of taking action.
Mr President, last year in Britain alone, 5 000 people died from overdosing on alcohol. They drank themselves to death in one session. Yet I do not see a directive before us to require alcohol to be submitted to all sorts of safety tests, or for bottles of Guinness or Strasbourg wine to carry the strongest possible health warnings. So why on earth are the manufacturers of food supplements being told that they must jump through a series of expensive hoops, which may be so costly as to drive some of them out of business, in order to keep their products on the market?My colleague, Frederick Ries, says that not all vitamins are safe, but of course you can kill yourself on anything if you eat enough of it. You can stuff yourself with baked beans until you die, but unlike alcohol or most pharmaceutical products, vitamin and food supplements do not have a track record of killing people. On the contrary, I, like Mr Blokland, have a stack of letters which testify that many do a great deal of good.This directive, therefore, is like taking a sledgehammer to crack a nut! Better labelling would have been sufficient to provide such protection as is needed, but perhaps that would not have been enough to satisfy the big drug companies, which are seeking to control a lucrative market.I remember the Commissioner telling us not long ago that under his regime we would have less interference of the kind which angers many European citizens for no good reason. However, when it comes to Brussels proving that it wants to treat people like an interfering nanny, this directive really does take the biscuit.(Applause)
Mr President, Europe was as lavish with its fine words when apartheid was abolished as it proved to be miserly when it came to economic concessions. This small-minded mentality did not hold sway in the Commission but it did in the short-sighted European governments that allowed their national profit interests to carry more weight than the welfare of the South African people.It has emerged from a recent report by UNCTAD that South Africa’s imports from the European Union are likely to increase more dramatically than exports to this market. In so far as this is the case, the agreement is certainly going to have to be adjusted. We are going to have to keep a very close eye on the actual implementation of the agreement.We must not allow the SADC countries to be disadvantaged by South Africa’s relations with Europe. The same applies here: a good neighbour is worth more than a distant friend. Indeed, South Africa must give impetus to the development of the whole region. Its aggressive expansion in neighbouring countries is doing nothing to further this aim. The balance of trade with neighbouring countries is completely unstable. South Africa exports seven times more than it imports. Just as the European Union has granted Pretoria preferential tariffs, so Pretoria could do the same with its neighbours. After all, economic development is essential if there is to be political stability and peace throughout the region. Notwithstanding our criticism of the European Union’s position, we attach a great deal of importance to the fundamental objective of the agreement, that is the economic development of South Africa and integration into international trade. That is why we support Mrs Kinnock’s recommendation.Mr President, as the saying goes: better some of a pudding than none of a pie.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by thanking Mr Evans and Mr Mantovani for their work.This is an important report, although it does leave major question marks and give rise to serious doubts in certain areas. This report is a natural full stop to the conclusions reached in the Green Paper, which highlighted the remaining barriers to mobility, mobility which is not, as Mr Mantovani said, simply a question of goods and capital but must indeed be mobility of persons, with all the spiritual, human and cultural wealth which they can take to the different countries and thereby enrich them.Our group – the Group of the European Liberal Democrat and Reform Party – has tabled amendments which include the category of researchers in the recommendation: we are therefore in favour of including researchers. Moreover, we would stress that, although the proposal is certainly a firm step in the right direction, in our opinion, there are certain gaps which will require us, or rather the Commission, to work on eliminating all the remaining barriers of an administrative, legal, linguistic and cultural, but also financial nature. At the same time, it needs to produce active measures firmly promoting the teaching of at least two Community languages in every country and developing and supporting the cultural and linguistic education of our young – and not-so-young – citizens. This should include the use of new methods and new technologies.We also agree that there is a need to give all those who participate in this mobility system clear, comprehensive information regarding their social security rights. In addition, we agree that direct and indirect taxes such as the tax payable for renewal of residence permits should be abolished immediately.Certainly, as Liberal Democrats, we agree that this mobility system should be extended to include the candidate countries as soon as possible, and we would like to express our regret at the continuing delay in the mutual recognition of qualifications, an issue with which Commissioner Reding is quite familiar and which we know to be very important to her.Commissioner, we call upon you to act incisively within the Commission on this unresolved matter, so that, in full respect for national powers and sovereignty, we will indeed be able to talk of a Europe of peoples, a Europe of citizens, but also a Europe of culture. For if Europe is not a Europe of culture, it will never be Europe!
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the spring summit of EU heads of state and government has been devoted to the development of the economy and labour market. It is, then, also only natural that the two topics be linked, since they are two sides of the same coin.Success in employment policy is crucial to achieving the objective of economic policy. The fact is, moreover, that an economic policy that increases competitiveness and flexibility and so improves the economic incentives for creating jobs is the core of employment policy.In addition, there are the factors so brilliantly emphasised in Mr Mann’s report, which those of us in the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party are able to support and which we think will be improved by the amendments tabled by ourselves and the Group of the European People’s Party, amendments that we too shall of course support. Mr Mann’s report emphasises that we must have a stronger commitment to training, to improved incentives for accepting and creating jobs and to less bureaucracy and more flexibility in the labour market.Unfortunately, the common employment policy is seen, from the job figures and unemployment statistics, not to be an unqualified success. We are much too far from the ambitious targets set in Lisbon three years ago. It might be enquired whether they were too ambitious. No, they were not; but there are trend-setting countries that do not feel sufficiently bound by the promises. There has been progress in some areas, but this is overshadowed, I believe, by a general picture of too modest a desire to comply with the common objectives. I agree with the proposal you have tabled, Commissioner, for simplifying and clarifying the open coordination of employment policy with a view to having fewer guidelines. These are constructive reforms that have been presented, and I also think it good that we should have better coordination with the common economic policy.Furthermore, we must also become much better at monitoring and ensuring that the Member States do in fact feel bound by the fine promises given at the Lisbon Summit, and this also applies to the large countries.
I wish to ask your advice on raising this particular issue with the Petitions Committee: I wonder whether that would be in order. It is about my constituent, Mark Forrester, who was arrested on alleged football hooliganism during the EURO 2000 championships. He was subjected, and I say subjected with good reason, to the fast-track trial procedure last year, and was convicted: it was then deemed to be unfair and he went for retrial last month. The conviction was upheld last week.I believe this fast track trial and the conviction being upheld is contrary to Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights. It is contrary to Articles 47 and 48, of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, which you, Madam President, signed. Every EU citizen has the right to a fair trial and should be deemed innocent until proven guilty.The video evidence that we saw in Court showed that my constituent, Mark Forrester, was not involved in any way, shape or form with any violence. A further video was offered to the Belgian authorities by the UK police. The Belgian police refused to take that further evidence. I believe the decision by the Court was more about propping up the fast-track trial procedure than about justice. Mark Forrester is innocent and we will carry on that fight to prove that he is innocent and to clear his name. I hope, Madam President, you will help us in that endeavour.
Thank you for your answer, Commissioner. Clearly, it is too early to draw any conclusions, but I believe some progress could certainly be made both on cooperation concerning language learning methods and on the preservation of unusual languages.I know that the Commission is aware of the current difficulties when it comes to cooperation on preserving minor languages and I hope that the Commission is able to use some of the experience that has been accumulated in order to maintain and develop those cultures and languages that belong together.
Mr President, I have two points. While legally debatable, the execution of Sheikh Yassin must not cause us to forget who he was: the instigator of the worst suicide attacks and the head of a movement whose charter still calls for the destruction of Israel and, beyond that – let us not forget – the physical elimination of Jews throughout the world. Do we mourn this man?Secondly, the American plan deserves some consideration since it invites us to move beyond the illusion in which European action is currently mired, the illusion whereby resolution of the conflict would precede the democratisation of the Middle East. As we know, democracies do not wage war against each other, so there will be no lasting solution to the conflict without democratisation and modernisation of the Middle East. Without such a Copernican revolution, Mr President, we will forever have the spectacle of a sententious but powerless Europe, which Commissioner Patten embodies with the perfection of an old Shakespearean actor.
Mr President, I can imagine that a number of MEPs who were against this directive at the time are now satisfied with it. I think that congratulations are in order for Mr Lechner. It is fortunate that the directive which we voted on yesterday is so different in nature that we really do not need to expect a similar kind of judgement from the Advocate-General or from the Court. Yesterday’s directive is based on three existing directives, two of which have already been before the Court. I am therefore completely satisfied with the vote as it was held yesterday.(Applause)
Mr President, it is high time that we resolved this complex and long-standing issue once and for all. As we all know, there are many competing claims – the claims of ACP banana producers, Community banana producers, EU businesses which have been hit hard by US sanctions, the EU's role and standing in the WTO and, of course, the rights and interests of European banana consumers.It will not be possible to satisfy fully all these claims and therefore we have to accept a compromise. The Commission's proposal is a compromise between those who demand an immediate move to a tariff only system and those who wish to ignore the WTO rulings and stick with the flawed regime as it is. That is why the majority of the  Group supports the Commission's proposal to continue a tariff-rate quota system for a transitional period before moving to a definitive tariff only system.The Dary report, on the other hand, is premised on the somewhat unrealistic notion that we can ignore rulings from the WTO altogether. It gives complete priority to the concerns of EU banana producers over the equally legitimate concerns of innocent EU businesses in other sectors suffering from arbitrary US sanctions. Most strange of all, it risks complicating matters so much further that the Commission, as stated in its proposal of November last year, will be obliged to move directly to a tariff only system. This would be exactly the opposite of the objectives of those who support this report.I have also heard that during the vote, which will take place either today or tomorrow, some may advocate referral back to committee. This would be an undignified act of foot-dragging which would do nothing to address the long-term issues at stake. We need stability for European and ACP banana producers and EU consumers. That can be done by rejecting this report and supporting the Commission's compromise proposal.
Mr President, on behalf of my group, I would also like to thank my colleague, Mrs Corbey, for a well prepared report. It is absolutely necessary to revise the packaging directive. A clear solution regarding objectives for the utilisation of packaging waste must be achieved, because the situation as it is at present is very confused.The Commission’s proposal for a general level of recycling regarding packaging waste is an ambitious aim, but it is attainable on certain conditions. Material-specific recycling targets should be closer to one another. There can be no justification for very different targets, at least with reference to environmental criteria. Material-specific targets within the EU accord a different status to each material, but Member States are also in an unequal position if their practices regarding packaging and, as a consequence, the proportion of different packaging materials they use varies greatly from one to another.As has been said here already, it is especially important to prevent the generation of waste. This can be done, for example, by making effective use of renewable raw materials, by manufacturing good quality, hard-wearing, durable and recyclable products, and by reducing the hazard of waste that results. Whether the re-use of packaging should be encouraged must be assessed on a case-by-case basis. For example, fibre packaging is easily manufactured from recyclable, renewable raw materials. It is often more beneficial environmentally speaking and cheaper than re-usable packaging.
Madam President, first of all, I should like to congratulate the two rapporteurs. Every year I am shocked at the huge amount of work they have to do. What are my general comments on the budget? It is widely known, also from previous years, that I am a great fan of carrying out what we have agreed as far as possible. We should thus remain committed to the financial perspectives. This year too, there are a number of budgetary items which go beyond these financial perspectives. This is particularly the case in category 4. We should, in my opinion, adopt a flexible stance for once. As far as the necessary expenditure for Afghanistan and the Global Health Fund is concerned, I believe we should use the flexibility instrument and confer with the Council.Whenever I discuss the budget, I cannot help but mention agricultural spending. I have once again tabled a host of amendments, and I hope that if they are approved by the plenary, the Council will be prepared to adopt them. We currently have an FMD investigation committee, which has made a number of recommendations on which you will be able to vote later on this year. However, a number of things are already clear. It is unacceptable for us to slaughter animals on a large scale again in the future, as we have done in the past. This is why I have tabled amendments for developing better vaccines and better testing methods, distinguishing between infected animals and inoculated animals, and so on. Also, in my opinion – which is incidentally universally endorsed – agricultural production should focus on quality. The public, however, should know what quality is. Europe needs to develop its own quality system which is readily recognisable to its customers, and funding has been made available for this purpose, provided the system is effective.Finally, with regard to the cost of controlling animal diseases, I believe that it is unacceptable for us to earmark a relatively small amount in the budget for this purpose every year, while every year it becomes apparent that if a real epidemic were to break out somewhere, it would cost billions. In my view, we need to develop European insurance systems.Finally, I have noticed that cooperation between the Council, the Commission and Parliament has been good to date. I hope that this will continue to be the case in future.
Mr President, it is, of course, vital to assess the phenomenon of services of general interest and the implications thereof for the European citizen. In our view, the basic objective in this connection should be to step up competition in favour of the citizen and to determine the pre-conditions on that basis.The concept of services of general interest should be a matter to be decided upon by the Member States, and subsidiarity should be a keyword in this connection. It is essential to accomplish the internal market in the way it was agreed in Lisbon. That is why, in the interest of the citizen, swift progress should be made with the ongoing liberalisation of postal services, transport, electricity and gas – and water as well, as far as I am concerned.Current liberalisation has contributed greatly to the competitiveness of European businesses and has also benefited the European citizen. Citizens should have a choice, particularly in the case of products which are so important in everyday life. Citizens must be regarded as consumers rather than objects.That is why services of general interest must be provided in a competitive manner everywhere. It is important for a sufficient number of market operators to enter the market, and that is why the same conditions of access must apply to public and private businesses alike.The citizen also benefits from clarity in the field of prices, bills and supplies. In addition, high quality must be delivered. This should, of course, go hand in hand with the correct and prompt handling of complaints.Efficiency, for example with a view to an improved guarantee of supply, should also be on the agenda. Furthermore, the market for other products, such as water, must be opened up so that the citizen can reap the benefits there too.With regard to the drafting of a framework directive, I would prefer to await the Commission position in Laeken. At the moment, we are actually opposed to a framework directive. We must carefully consider whether such a directive is in fact necessary, and we should only draft legislation if it is required. We should not make it more opaque than it already is.On a final note, I should like to thank the rapporteur, including for the consultation he has entered into with all of us. In all honesty, I thought his original proposal was the best and the Commission has since then made every effort to tone things down. Our voting behaviour will therefore be able to hit quite a critical note in that respect.
Mr President, protecting animal and plant species which are threatened with extinction is about more than just preserving the natural riches. It is about a battle between civilisation and barbarism. Maintaining bio-diversity is also about more than preventing the extinction of certain animal species, however important these may be, such as elephants and whales. Since the individual species are unable to stand up for themselves, we need to do this for them, at home or elsewhere. This means, for example, that the international transport of tropical animals must be regulated. Even today, there are scandalous cases of abuse, both in legal and illegal transportation. Over-exploitation and misuse cannot be explained by poverty alone. They often involve ruthless traders who only have their own self-interests at heart. Although we may not be aware of it, huge numbers of animals are also the victims of natural disasters and especially wars in Africa. Animals are, by definition, not just there for our amusement. It is only right that a civilised society should give their beastly fate more attention.
Fundamental rights within the EU seem even more important now that we shall be reuniting Eastern and Western Europe in just a few weeks’ time. A common basis of values for the new, enlarged EU is now even more necessary. We want to create a Union, the foundation for which is humanitarianism, tolerance, human dignity and the equal value of human beings.We have chosen to abstain in the vote on partnership and rights for heterosexual and homosexual couples when it comes to adoption within the EU. The Liberal Party has always pushed for everyone, regardless of sexual orientation or marital status, to be able to apply for adoption. All adoption decisions should be made on the basis of what is best for the child. We are not, therefore, against the possibility of either heterosexual or homosexual couples being tested for adoption. We are, however, doubtful that this is something that should be decided on at EU level.We are also of the opinion that the issue of euthanasia is something that each individual Member State should be allowed to resolve on its own. We have, however, adopted a position whereby the EU should push for women to have access to safe and legal abortions, essential contraceptives and economically accessible services within reproductive and sexual health and sex education.
I welcome the resolution of the European Parliament on combating the drugs problem in Europe. It is a good thing that MEPs are at last receptive to the way we treat drug addicts in the Netherlands. The Netherlands has been treated as a pariah for years, but now we are being praised for the way we are dealing with these matters. The results of this vote are an endorsement of Dutch drugs policy.I am pleased with the members’ decision to call on Member States in this report to place prevention and risk limitation at centre stage in our drugs policy. In this context, we should be offering facilities to help drug addicts kick their habit. We should also be making better use of the experiences of former drug users in the information we provide in places like schools and community centres. By providing better information we should be able to give young people a better idea of the consequences of taking drugs. We will have to pay specific attention to prisoners. I believe that it is a good thing for Member States to get prisons completely free from drugs.I have therefore voted in favour of this proposal.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to speak in this debate dealing with a key proposal for the process of European construction.The possibility of having a genuine European limited liability company is in line with the thinking which has led us to a European internal market, to a monetary union and to the last phase of the full use of the euro, which we are now approaching.Nevertheless, as one of the rapporteurs has pointed out, it has taken us thirty years to arrive at this thinking – a little more than thirty years – from the first proposal, in 1970, until now.My observation on behalf of thehas two aspects to it: on the one hand, we will of course support the proposal; we believe that it represents a step forward within the achievements of the process of the European construction. We must also say, however, on the other hand, that we are not satisfied. As the proposed amendments to both reports point out, the structure proposed for the creation of a European limited liability company is still too complex.There are various options and the possible varieties of European company may even arise within a single Member State. It is now thought that if the different methods and options are taken into account and a combined calculation is made, up to two hundred different figures may be reached. We do not believe that this is the most appropriate way to consolidate a European company which would act in accordance with the reality which we have achieved thanks to the European internal market and the monetary union.We have therefore also presented a series of amendments on behalf of theaimed at consolidating this key figure for the Economic and Monetary Union and we would very much like the Council to accept them.
Mr President, I have three short questions to ask Mr Fischler.One of the questions I am often asked is if one case of BSE breaks out in a herd of dairy cows, why does the entire herd have to be slaughtered? The systems vary from country to country in Europe. What is the Commission’s view on this? Is it necessary or not, or is it just a precautionary measure?The way in which the tests are funded varies from country to country. Is that good for the unity of the market and if not, is the Commission planning to do something about it?Thirdly, we still import large quantities of beef from outside Europe. How does the Commission ensure that these cattle have not been fed animal meal, and are the controls adequate?
Mr President, I shall very briefly put three observations to the President-in-Office of the Council, the President of the Commission, and my fellow Members, the first of which concerns immigration. I think the evidence should lead us to believe that we should establish in Seville a policy that has been asked for since Tampere, that is truly effective at European level, that has a European dimension and that also establishes and intensifies a real political dimension to the European Union. This is a subject which, through the intergovernmental method, has sadly been postponed for too long.The second observation I would like to make is that account should also be taken of the external dimension that causes immigration, and that the cooperation mechanisms must therefore be strengthened far more than they have been to date.I believe that one topic should be resolved in Seville: the evident distancing of the positions expressed by the Commission over the past few months from the Commission proposals and their reception by the Council.I think that, specifically, Mr de Miguel has commented on the importance attached to the Convention; it would be good to wait for the results of the Convention before making a series of proposals which seem to rather distort the context in which the Intergovernmental Conference would subsequently have to state its position.Lastly, allow me to note that in Laeken the seats of many agencies of the European Union were not decided on. I would like to know whether this area will be covered in Seville.
That was a very full reply and I will need to study it. I was at the conference organised by the Irish Government recently. It made progress and that was why I tabled this question. If we do not have a common definition of what organised crime is, and if we do not have the ability to collect statistics across the European Union, how can we possibly know how to fight against organised crime?I am grateful that progress is being made, but I am particularly interested to know whether you are including in this the ten accession countries which will be joining in May. Regrettably, a lot of the organised crime which affects us derives from Central and Eastern Europe.
Mr President, I am keen to follow the line taken by our rapporteur, Mr Maaten, and would like to ask you, fellow-Members, to do the same. Tobacco is no ordinary product of course. We are familiar with the fatal risks associated with tobacco, we know the statistics which have already been quoted here today. We also know about its addictive effect. Typical use of cigarettes is extremely dangerous, life-threateningly so. You can be unlucky and have a car crash, or abuse alcohol, but with tobacco, the life-threatening aspect is always there. I very much welcome the emphasis which Mr Maaten placed on the dangers of passive smoking. A tobacco ban would be inefficient and socially unattainable at present. But it still remains clear that those who market cigarettes should not be allowed to do so. The product is far too dangerous.What can we do as regulators? First of all, we need to realise that we are in an extremely absurd situation, straddling enormous state revenue on the one hand and enormous expenditure in health insurance on the other. We should be able to admit to this. European policy on tobacco is not very logical, to say the least. We as regulators should at least try to practise damage limitation. We should compel producers to make the warnings to users as clear as possible. It may be bureaucratic, but if you see how producers deal with other requirements, then I have to say that it is necessary to spell out our regulations very clearly.Later on this week, Parliament will be discussing phthalates and PVC softeners, and when I see how very circumspect we MEPs are, how very careful we are in dealing with these products, if I compare this with the little we are asking with regard to a dangerous product such as tobacco, I have to conclude that this Parliament can be very selective in its indignation.
Mr President, the programme which the French President has just presented is both ambitious and realistic. I was, however, hoping for a clearer commitment regarding the fundamental rights included in the Union’s agenda, for two reasons.In the first place, these rights must be enshrined in the forthcoming Charter of Fundamental Rights. In his speech, however, the President did not cite the examination of this charter as one of the main points of the European Council in Biarritz.In his response to the first speakers, he suggested that there could be some discussion of a proposal for a charter in Biarritz, but with a content that, he is well aware, would make it almost impossible to incorporate into the Treaties at the European Council in Nice. Is France, the homeland of human rights for two centuries, not going to set a more ambitious objective? This would be a great disappointment.In the second place, since Amsterdam, fundamental rights have formed the foundations of our Union and should represent the constant reference for any Member State action. The creation of an area of freedom, justice and security is the most difficult undertaking before us, especially given that unanimity is still the rule. This is a good subject of investigation for the intensified cooperation to which the President recently referred once again.The President was the first to refer to the terms of Article 6 of the Treaty in connection with the Haider case. In adopting such a stance, he set a very high standard, not just for the Austrian Government but, indirectly, for all the others too.The measures the French Presidency has already announced in the areas of justice and home affairs appear to live up to this challenge. They are, however, merely plans at this stage. Let me therefore address the French Presidency with the words the Greeks used to address the most promising athlete in ancient times: hic rhodus, hic salta [here is your Colossus, now jump!].
The  Group supported the Lisi report. However, we maintain serious reservations with regard to the Commission's proposal on air passenger compensation for the following reasons:1) The Commission's proposal has not undergone a proper economic impact assessment, to determine the potential effect on ticket prices and consumer choice. Such an assessment is fundamental to ensuring that the proposed system is sustainable in practice.2) Both the proposal and Parliament's compromise fail to recognise the fundamental difference between the usual circumstances leading to denied boarding and those leading to cancellations. Whilst denied boarding usually results from deliberate overbooking, cancellation is very often due to circumstances beyond the airline's control – for example, air traffic control. Parliament's definition of ‘force majeure’ is an inadequate safeguard in this respect. Though one might argue that airlines should seek recourse against those actually responsible in such cases, this will be very complicated in practice.3) Ultimately, particularly where budget carriers are concerned, it might be preferable to require airlines to offer consumers the option of paying a separate insurance premium, on top of the price of their ticket, thereby guaranteeing them compensation for cancellation and delay beyond the airline's control.- Beysen report (A5-0324/2002)
Mr President, I first wish to thank my Swedish colleagues, Göran Färm and Per Stenmarck, for their excellent reports. Strengthening the guidelines for budgetary procedure is the first step in the drafting of next year’s budget. My group stresses the importance of strict budgetary discipline. This means that the budget should not include unnecessary appropriations and that economy should be a feature of financial management. Proper budgeting leads to a decrease in payment arrears and promotes the implementation of budgeted programmes.In this respect the figures in recent years have been disheartening. In the year 2000, EUR 8.5 billion in appropriations were unused, and last year the amount was as much as EUR 12 billion. The situation is therefore alarming. In no way does this reflect rigorous financial management: it is symptomatic of poor administration. The Commission is unable to implement those areas of policy that Parliament has held to be important and for which it has authorised appropriations. As a result, areas of policy are implemented unsatisfactorily, while at the same time the arrears – the unpaid commitments – grow.There is no such massive degree of underutilisation in the administration of any Member State’s budget. For that reason our group not only supports budgetary discipline but is also strongly in favour of the Commission’s programme of reform. This is lent additional weight by the recent so-called new disclosures in the Commission’s administration. The matter of personal accountability must be clarified and the power of decision-making delegated downwards in the organisation. Accountability and result-oriented management are the key words here.There are special requirements associated with enlargement. The budget for 2003 may be the last one drafted for a Union of 15 Member States. In this regard our group also believes that the appropriations connected with enlargement are absolutely crucial. I wish the rapporteurs for the budget every success in their future work.
Mr President, with regard to Amendment No 3, the votes were 72 for and 56 against. Since the honourable Member said she would vote against, this amendment is repealed.
Throughout the EU we have a problem with young people drinking too much. We are not talking about adult drinking here, let us stress that. Some of my colleagues have raised the issue of subsidiarity. We are not dealing with a regulation or a directive here. We are simply talking about a recommendation. To try to deal with young people binge drinking and drinking to excess. It is a way for other countries to learn from each other. It is important, for instance, that school nurses and doctors are trained to spot the problems of excessive drinking by young people. We must realise that peer pressure is a problem, lack of self-esteem, parents drinking: those are all problems we should take into account. We should also make sure that we consult the NGOs, which have a great deal of experience in this field already, and make sure that producers and retailers are held responsible for their actions.I personally would like to see alcohol advertising banned at young people's sporting events, not at adult events but at young people's sporting events, and I believe very strongly that we should support this recommendation. The WHO is supporting measures in this field, the NSPCC is and I certainly hope my colleagues will vote for it.
Mr President, I too, on behalf of my group, wish to thank Mr Hatzidakis for his commendable report. I also want to thank the Commission for having drafted its proposal along the lines Parliament requested earlier on.Our group supports the committee’s line, that there should be adequate funding for cohesion policy and reviews made of state aid policies, that there should not be any renationalisation of regional policy and that areas with permanent difficulties, islands, sparsely populated and mountainous regions, and regions subject to the statistical effect should receive special treatment. An effective regional policy, however, means that other policies have to support its aims alongside aid policies. A certain freedom is also required in regional development, for example in state subsidies, without competition necessarily becoming endangered or distorted.I am pleased that progress is being made in the simplification of administration. Let us make the Member States responsible for functioning effectively. It is especially important to maintain the good practices we have learned from the Leader, URBAN and EQUAL Community initiatives. To justify the work of the EU there is an urgent need for a certain regional approach to issues and an understanding of the user’s point of view.
Mr President, Commissioner, we appear to have lost our elementary knowledge of biology. For tens of thousands of years, our forefathers have known that corpses, both animal and human, have to be buried or burned. They have to return to the great cycle of nature and become new materials. Nowadays, we seem to believe that natural cycles of this kind imply re-use and that animals we shall be eating ourselves should be fed with dead animals of their own species. We need to regain a holistic understanding and realise that whatever we put onto our fields we get back in the form of bread and, above all, drinking water, which is also an important form of sustenance. What we give animals to eat, we later find on our own plates.There is a need for openness and public scrutiny at every link in the food chain. That is our best form of inspection. It is obvious that consumer groups, environmental organisations and the media should have free access to farms and to factories manufacturing foods and animal feedingstuffs.The European Union needs a clear and precise set of regulations governing food safety. This would not distort the market if it were the same for everyone. It must cover agriculture, the methods we use for rearing animals, the feedingstuffs and medicines which animals are given and, of course, how the raw materials are handled subsequently. It is quite a simple matter to produce a set of regulations but very difficult indeed to monitor compliance with them. What is needed in fact is intensive collaboration and interaction at local and district levels. The European Union must create some form of supervisory system for supervising the inspectors.
Mr President, during the formal and informal debate on this issue over the last few weeks and months, both the Commission and the Council have indicated that it is not the business of the European Parliament to stick its nose into the substance of WTO cases. I broadly agree. The Council and the Commission have also indicated that they think it is none of the European Parliament's business to issue awkward declarations on issues which are basically sub judice. Again, under normal circumstances, I would agree. But I would ask the Council and the Commission to tell me what we are supposed to do when we ask both of them in committee several times for justifications of how and why the decision was taken to launch this highly sensitive case and we get no more than a mere technocratic response.What are we supposed to do when we are told the decision was taken over lunch, not even by ministers, but over lunch in some obscure Council working group without any minutes to justify to the public or, indeed, to politicians such as ourselves, why the EU is launching yet another politically sensitive trade dispute?What strikes me is the sheer naivety of both the Commission and the Council in tackling such a highly political issue as if it were nothing more than a technical decision. It is simply inconceivable that the US Administration in Washington would rush headlong into yet another trade dispute with the EU without first ensuring there is a minimum of political backing in Congress. I find it very striking that both the Commission and the Council have failed to do that this time.It has been suggested that those who have signed this hotly worded declaration were behaving irresponsibly. Some Members of this Parliament feel it was irresponsible. It is surely much more irresponsible to launch such a politically and commercially sensitive trade dispute without even a ritual nod towards the normal standards of transparency and political probity. It is not an issue of reforming Article 133. It is simply expecting both the Commission and the Council to conduct trade policy, particularly on politically sensitive issues, in a more transparent and politically intelligent manner.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of theI congratulate all the rapporteurs on reports that in my view are relevant for the development of eEurope and an information society for all. With regard to the Van Velzen report there are two things I would like to stress.Re-use and commercial exploitation of public information, as proposed by the rapporteur, will lead to a real information society for all. Where basic information such as the wording of acts and jurisprudence is concerned, this must be made available to the European citizen free of charge. After all, as a taxpayer he or she has already paid for this information. We do not allow our citizens to pay for the same thing twice. Furthermore, good information is necessary for the functioning of a democratic constitutional state. In my opinion we as a Parliament must fight hard for the rights of the citizens. Public information must therefore be made available to the citizens free of charge or at marginal cost for reproduction and distribution. As a group we fully support the line of rapporteur Van Velzen.This brings me to my second point. Some Members are in favour of allowing certain government institutions to charge a reasonable return on investment because their income comes in part from the publication of their data, such as weather forecasts or maps. Of course this is possible where added value is a factor. There is provision for this in the exceptions. The unthinking inclusion in the directive of allowing a reasonable return on investment to be made seems highly dangerous to me. Because the question is, what is reasonable? Is it 10, 20 or 30% profit and do our citizens have to pay that? It is also important that the same conditions prevail in all the Member States. Subsidiarity in this case is fundamentally wrong. This is because we need a level playing field, only then can the internal market for public information be achieved.To go through that last point: this directive must promote the reuse and the exploitation of public information. The government must therefore act as a booster, that is as a launching customer, to make this information available at low cost to give small and medium-sized businesses the opportunity to exploit this information so that a good market develops for it, as in the United States. Because a market that is controlled by monopolists as now does not lead to more jobs and greater prosperity.Turning now to 3G. It has already been said that the transfer of billions from the private sector to the public sector has been disastrous for the mobile telecoms sector. This means that we do not need to impose any unnecessary regulation now. Intervention may however be necessary to guarantee competition. Even then though we must ensure a level playing field. No unilateral measures by Member States to lighten the load of the mobile operators. We cannot have a situation in which France gives discounts on licences and other Member States renew licences. I think that the Commission must bring forward clear measures to guarantee that level playing field.Finally, a word about the Khanbhai and Paasilinna reports, because they make a contribution to the eEurope that we here in the Parliament favour, to ensure that citizens and businesses can profit fully from the information society. This has happened too little to date. It is true that in Lisbon in 2000 we agreed that we must be the most competitive and dynamic knowledge economy in 2010, but these appear to be nothing more than fine words that require urgent conversion into deeds.In practice it seems that over and over again the Member States are falling back on their own national hobby horses, be it a question of the European patent or of access to public information. That is why it is good that the Commission is keeping its finger on the pulse and keeping the minds of the leaders of the Member States on the matter. The basic principles are excellent, but when it comes to the implementation of the applications, such as e-health, e-government and e-learning, then it is shameful to see what is actually happening. I wish us all, Parliament and Commission, success in the realisation of a better eEurope.
Mr President, Commissioner, thank you for your clarification and thank you, Mr Rothley, for this proposal with which you have made another contribution to the further completion of the internal market. We know it is a slow, but steady process. Even if it takes twenty years before the fourth directive is followed by a fifth one, we will get there in the end. I have confidence in this. You, Commissioner, are well on your way to achieving it, and I hope that eventually, we will reach this optimal position.Insurance law is also complex in this case. I myself am a personal injury lawyer and have myself sustained personal injury in the past. This has probably given me the opportunity of working here. It is of extreme importance for this legislation to be transportable to your country of residence, because as the injured party, you often face a great many problems with the various legal systems. So, as far as that is concerned, I am very pleased with the proposal as it is now before us. I think that the insurance companies are also delighted with a further harmonisation, which affords them, too, more clarity. We set up a green card system some time ago, and this takes it further within the EU. The minimum amounts proposed by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market struck me as being very high, because these rarely come into play in practice, if at all. I am therefore actually more pleased with Mr Rothley’s compromise proposals, for they are more geared towards the market as it is in reality. The amounts should not be too high either, because, I believe, enforceability would then become an issue. Nobody benefits from legislation that is not enforceable. I would like to state once again, therefore, that this proposal is closer to reality than the extremely high amounts initially formulated. Then again, the Commission’s proposals are a little on the low side, and I think that what Mr Rothley has proposed is ideal.We Liberals can give our warm support to this proposal. On a different note, in an amendment, I had requested more harmonisation in the discussion of personal injury, in terms of the level of invalidity or the level of the value of the injury. I gather from Mr Rothley that a follow-up report on this is already in the making. I think that we are making another contribution to the internal market’s completion, for which I am grateful. It will receive my unqualified support.
Mr President, the Barcelona Process was not lacking in good intentions or financial resources. Despite this, the outcome was meagre, which is very disappointing. There was too much gesture politics going on and too little capacity to carry out the plans. Three quarters of the committed funding never left the kitty. Instead of a reduction in the means, this will now lead to an increase, which is a little bizarre, to say the least. It makes no sense to budget for even higher amounts if the absorption capacity remains restricted and the Commission delegations are understaffed.It would be far more preferable if the European Union were to show its solidarity with the Mediterranean countries by opening up its markets more, not only for products from industry, but also for those from agriculture and horticulture. We have a very long way to go before a free-trade area is established.The economies of the partner countries are still very vulnerable. Their mutual trade is still being restricted and has protectionism written all over it. Additionally, the political distrust which exists between the partners must first be dispelled.The Barcelona Process can only succeed if the Mediterranean partners continue to work on democratisation. The human rights clauses in the Association Agreements should not remain hollow phrases. Any violations should be penalised by a drop in financial support. But if we reduce the amounts which cannot be spent anyway, then this will not make any impact whatsoever. We must bring our ambitions into line with the degree to which they can be implemented.The question is whether the report’s many sound wishes can all be realised at the same time. It is better to do one thing which is slightly inferior than to do a great deal of things which are downright inferior. Fine words and fine budgets are not enough to guarantee stability and welfare. It is about the willingness to carry out true political reform, and this is what the Barcelona Process still lacks.
I would like to thank the Commissioner for the thorough answer he was willing to give me and from which it transpires that, naturally, further elaboration was required regarding the policy currently adopted by the Commission. Nevertheless, I do not fully share the view that competition would therefore not be disrupted, although I have taken note of the fact that you now also provide for a contractual exemption clause.As far as I am concerned, Commissioner, there is still great concern not only from me but also from within the sector with regard to the lack of clarity which currently – fourteen days prior to the coming into force of this regulation – exists regarding the guidelines on what is and is not allowed. Although your explanation has shed some light on the matter, I think it is appropriate to also inform the sector of this.My question in this respect is why should the system be changed if so far, its application has not resulted in any complaints? Is there too little belief in self-regulation and does one want to push this regulation through at all costs within a sector which, in fact, is already having a hard time?
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it might appear somewhat strange that someone who does not live in the area concerned should be taking an interest in this problem. In theGroup, however, we have had an extensive discussion on the ability of this industry to compete and in particular on the level playing field within which this sector of industry is supposed to move. I was therefore a little disappointed with your input with regard to what the European Union could do. After all, we must realise that the level playing field has not always existed throughout Europe – far from it – and indeed still does not exist in some places. In particular, the World Trade Organisation and the OECD still offer great opportunities.For the people in the region, whether we are talking about this industry, which is in difficulties or another region, it will be of great importance that much is done in the field of innovation and research. We have funds in Europe that we can work with. It is not as if the Commission is incapable of doing anything at all. I would like to remind you that when the European Union realised that we had fallen behind in the area of the information society, your predecessor Mr Bangemann brought into being a platform that encouraged European Member States to catch up. In this area too – in view of our imminent enlargement to include Eastern Europe – we should not be saying that companies must not relocate; we should be saying that we must try to retain control of innovation, and that means that the research funds can certainly have a part to play and that the European Commission can also be a source of encouragement.Finally I would like to draw your attention to the European social funds. It seems to me to be logical that wherever there is a good social charter and where companies make efforts themselves, an additional input should come via the European Social Fund so that if redundancies are in fact unavoidable, people are offered prospects for the future via retraining and are not left out in the cold. The question that we will be faced with in the future is whether we can work together to give Europe a different aspect from that currently presented to the world by the USA. I am very much in favour of a liberal Europe, but it must be a social liberal Europe. I also find that your speech gives too little indication of the incentives there could be both at European and at national level .
Mr President, as a representative for Cumbria – the area most affected by this disease in Europe – to think back 20 months is to remember the distress of farmers who, in many cases, saw their animals being slaughtered – although there was no evidence that they were infected – and, in particular, the distress of those who made their living from tourism in the Lake District. All too often the cries of those people whose economy depended on tourists and whose contribution to the economy was worth six times that of the farmers went totally unheeded.We saw the pictures on our television sets: visitors were turned away because of the mass culling; animal welfare concerns were being disregarded; the fires were making a nonsense of the policies adopted by this European Union in its attempts to address the concerns about dioxins spreading in our atmosphere. People were really upset by the illogicality of the situation: mountains, hills and footpaths were closed for no reason. At the same time, you could walk along a country road and the sheep and lambs would stick their heads out through the fences. People felt a sense of anger and despair. This must never happen again.I am glad that this report makes clear that the UK Government's policy was wrong, and that we should be thinking about emergency vaccination if this situation occurs again. I also believe that, in order to take account of the wider considerations and in view of the relatively small role which farming has in our economy these days, we also need to look at preventive vaccination as a long-term solution to difficulties of this kind.
Many thanks, Mr President. I can tell you that the result we now have regarding the budget, following the vote in the Committee on Budgets, very much resembles the budget guidelines that we adopted at the start of this year. What have the main issues been up to now from the point of view of Parliament? We want to make a success of the integration of the new Member States into the European Union. Enlargement must succeed, and that is why we have been saying right from the outset that the 25 countries must be dealt with in a single budget. Secondly, we have been saying that we want to do something about stimulating economic growth, in not only the new, but also the existing, Member States. I shall come back to that later. We have taken an important initiative as regards the development of SMEs in the new, and also in the existing, Member States. The third point is that we have to facilitate the integration of the new Member States with the existing ones as much as possible.As has already been said several times in earlier debates, this 2004 budget has a number of particular features. We are to present a budget for 25 countries now, when we all know that we shall not have a European Union of 25 Member States until 1 May next year. Hence, we shall be voting in December on a budget for 15 countries, with a technical annex for the ten new Member States. We shall then vote on a supplementary budget for those ten new Member States during next year. Another new feature of the 2004 budget is activity-based budgeting. We have discovered some more flaws in this, which we hope it will be possible to rectify in the course of this year. Particularly important as far as Parliament is concerned is that we are able to look into the extent to which the programmes are being implemented and what kind of evaluation techniques are available.By and large, we have voted in favour of an economical budget. The payment appropriations have been increased, including other payment appropriations, but, on the whole, I think that this result is suitable for presentation, even at a time when the whole of Europe is economising.I should like to say another thing about the various chapters of the budget; firstly, the agricultural budget, Chapter 1. We are of course awaiting the letter of amendment, which is due to be issued shortly. We hope that Parliament’s initiatives, which are reaffirmed in this budget and which were also put forward in earlier resolutions, will also appear in the Commission’s letter of amendment, to be issued shortly: namely the pilot projects, or preparatory actions, regarding the environmental indicators, funding for animal diseases, the development of better vaccines and the development of a quality policy for agricultural products. It will also undoubtedly become clear then what impact the more expensive euro has had on agricultural policy. In addition, the Committee on Budgets has voted in favour of a number of further points: we want more research into animal welfare, and we want more alternatives to tobacco-growing in the EU, among other things.As regards Chapter 2, the Structural Funds, we have increased payment appropriations in line with the figure the Council considered reasonable. We did this for two reasons. Firstly, the Member States think that they can spend a great deal more than the Commission proposes each year, and we wanted to accommodate the Member States. Secondly, we are concerned about the slow pace of implementation of structural policy. We think that increasing the payment appropriations will enable us to make improvements there. I hear you saying ‘Is it appropriate to increase the payment appropriations at this time?’ If we look at the amount of the increases in payment appropriations in previous years, I think that this is actually a very modest increase in comparison.Regarding Chapter 3, internal policies, we consider the promotion of SMEs in the new Member States to be the most important initiative. It is possible to do this with a relatively small amount of money. With EUR 33 million more than in the Council’s budget, and with an attendant multiplier effect of the order of 20 to 30, we can provide SMEs in Eastern Europe with a good deal more guarantees that they will be able to develop. At the same time, we shall tag a training programme for bank managers on to it.The chapter on internal policies contains another reduction in relation to the Commission, but an increase in relation to the Council, in respect of measures to be taken in connection with the ever increasing marine pollution. There is the European Maritime Agency, which of course has to do its work, but we have found it necessary to limit the appropriations proposed by the Commission, since there is no legal basis as yet. We hope that that will be put in place this year, however.This year, we also paid a great deal of attention to the agencies. More and more of these are appearing; and even newer ones are on their way. We want better parliamentary control over these agencies. This control over their work programme will be entrusted to the parliamentary committees, and even Parliament itself. We also want to pay more attention to the organigram of the agencies, in the same way as we take an interest in the organigram of the Commission itself. This is not a difficult thing to require of the agencies. We hope that we shall be able to find a solution to this for the second reading.A few more points need to be mentioned in connection with Chapter 3. In our opinion, the Council must take a decision as soon as possible regarding the seat of the agencies. Great uncertainty will reign until this has been taken. We believe that VAT fraud must be further investigated. The Info-Points Europe are a matter of great concern for Parliament. Owing to the new Financial Regulation, there is a possibility that some of these Info-Points will go bankrupt – will have to close their doors – and this whilst virtually everyone in Parliament is convinced that they play a very useful role.Finally, we are all familiar with the Eurostat problems. We have put 25% of the funds for Eurostat in the reserve pending the final report, which we anticipate towards the end of October.There has also been a great deal of discussion on Chapter 4: the external policies of the EU. The situation in Iraq predominates here. We are of the opinion that something must be done in Iraq. We have entered a provision of EUR 30 million in the budget, and we are aware that the Commission has proposed the sum of EUR 200 million, EUR 40 million of which, in all probability, will be paid out of the 2003 budget and EUR 160 million of which out of the 2004 budget, possibly using the flexibility instrument.In addition, the Committee on Budgets has adopted an amendment that envisages making EUR 500 million available for Iraq. We shall be voting on this next Thursday. The prevailing view is that, whichever programme is brought in for Iraq, it must not be at the expense of the existing programmes in Chapter 4: namely Afghanistan, the fight against poverty and so on. We are also of the opinion that all the aid to Iraq must be given under the auspices of the United Nations.A further point regarding the Common Foreign and Security Policy is that EUR 5 million of the sum earmarked by the Council has been put in the reserve. We want a vigorous dialogue with the Council about the agreement that we recently concluded regarding the provision of information. We are aware that the Council may want a little more in this sphere. We shall pay this due attention in Parliament, but, first and foremost, we think that, if agreements are concluded with the Council, they must be carried out faithfully. We still have some doubts about this at the moment.I should like to discuss one last point in connection with the budget, namely administrative expenditure. The Commission requested additional staff, but this has only been half-honoured by the Council. Parliament takes a different view. First of all, we think that the Commission could well do with that staff, in principle. Before we say a definitive ‘yes’, however, we attach a number of conditions: the ones set out in the budgetary resolutions and in the resolution by Parliament itself. I can give you some examples: the number of vacant posts in the Commission must not exceed 4%, the new posts are to be allocated exclusively to citizens of the new Member States, the Commissioners must respect the code of conduct that they agreed at the beginning of their term of office – particularly with regard to ‘parachutage’, as we always call it – and, last but not least, the Commission must, in our opinion, give its full attention to the implementation of the budget. That last point still leaves something to be desired, however, especially regarding the pilot projects and the preparatory actions. We shall keep a close eye on this.Finally, I should like to thank my fellow MEPs, the Council and the Commission on this occasion, too, for the pleasant cooperation I have enjoyed up to now. I have tried to achieve a consensus as far as possible, as befits a rapporteur, and I hope that this cooperation may continue in future, too.(Applause)
Mr President, it is with great regret, not to say anguish, that I see the outcome of the vote on the motion today in this House. It is tragic to see that, like the Council, Parliament too has decided not to speak out. The deserted Chamber is, at this moment, the tragic symbol of our behaviour in this international crisis which is proving so terrible. This sign of impotence can only be a cause of pain to all those who have always hoped and continue to hope that Europe will be to the world a shining example of balance, progress, peace and guaranteeing respect for the rights of peoples and international law. Despite the fact that no resolution has been adopted, there were significant votes, the most important of which would appear to be that in which Parliament opted by a large majority for a common foreign and security policy with areas of enhanced cooperation. This is the only glimmer of hope in the despair which follows a vote which does us no credit.
Mr President, I am running short of inspiration about what to say on the subject of the Members' Statute. We have said it all before. We say every time 'this is the last chance' and surely this must be it.Perhaps I should begin where I left off in this Chamber in June when I offered an explanation of vote on behalf of the  Group's abstention and my own national delegation's vote against the then resolution. We said we could not give our support then, due to the inclusion of primary law and the lack of the possibility of national tax. I could say on behalf of my Group that 'we told you so' as now, by and large, the majority of this House seems to have arrived at the same position – so we make progress. But before I sat down last time I also said I hoped that the Council would make a better job of this than we did. Well now we are back, offering the Council a clear and acceptable package.Sadly, we all know that the Council did not have a very good weekend. But here is a chance for it to deliver a success story for Europe before the end of this mandate. It may seem a very small success, but its implications for the good name of European democracy are huge. Next summer when we face Europe's citizens in elections we could have a Parliament with its own House in order, its Members across Europe treated and respected equally and on a transparent basis, or we could continue with the current disgraceful mix and muddle which leaves us all open to ridicule.I have said it before, and I will say it again. I believe we all come here to work on behalf of Europe's people, not to spend our time in debates about our own pay and status. Council, you have the chance to get us out of this ridiculous situation and thereby enhance the Union in the eyes of its citizens. Please, please do not mess up this time.(Applause from the centre)
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. – Mr President, we welcome the Commission's approach, the broad thrust of which we fully endorse. We also thank Mr Hatzidakis for his excellent report.We have specific concerns relating to the European Social Fund under the competitiveness objective. First, the wider approach to social inclusion appears not to be supported to any substantial extent. We fear that many valuable projects will be lost. We hope that there will still be room for such projects, provided that they support the employment strategy.Second, national planning of programmes could prove counterproductive to addressing regional and local circumstances and involving local stakeholders. We call on the Commission to ensure genuine decentralisation in the development and implementation of programmes.Third, the disappearance of the Equal programme may lead to a loss of impetus and we wish accordingly to see a requirement for gender mainstreaming at all programming stages. Similarly, we hope for continuing availability of innovative measures as currently allowed under Article 6.Finally, we look forward to structures that will allow us to address genuine areas of need wherever they may be located.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, Erika Mann’s last words really struck a chord with me. I would like to thank the rapporteur for the excellent cooperation in the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy which culminated in this own initiative report.Mr President, there is too little investment in ICT across the entire European Union, both by industry and by the government. Take, for example, the sixth Framework Programme: EUR 3.6 billion has been earmarked for ICT, but that is far too little. For let us consider what is needed to turn Europe into the world’s most dynamic and competitive knowledge-based economy, as was agreed in Lisbon.First of all, we need a good infrastructure, of course, and I am taking a wide-angled view on this. Based on my liberal belief, this does not, of course, primarily require government involvement. At European level, however, there is naturally a need for a high-speed, trans-European research network, and that is where the European Union comes in a big way, as my fellow MEP pointed out a moment ago. I would urge the Commissioner to show more ambition in this area.There is also a need for good quality content. Once again, the lack of capital is a huge barrier, especially to innovation. The content sector consists of fledgling companies and medium-sized companies that wish to export, and due to the turbulence on the market, there is little willingness to provide risk capital. Moreover, Europe displays strong regional differences in the supply of capital. This situation puts Europe at a disadvantage compared to the United States, where three to four times more risk capital is being invested in digital content and in Internet-related activities.That now leads to innovation, more economic growth and, obviously, to employment. The public sector should play a more significant role in improving the situation by combining supply and demand in the European Union.Finally, Mr President, for the first time in history, technology is driving constitutional law. That is why I am asking the Commissioner why the topic “citizens and governance in the European knowledge-based society”, for which EUR 225 million has been earmarked in the sixth Framework Programme, does not fall within the same category as “technologies in the information society”.Mr President, the government itself will also need to adjust to the information society.
Mr President, the war in Chechnya largely started for reasons which are more to do with internal politics in Russia than with the situation in Chechnya itself. I therefore fear that there is little hope of the war ending before Mr Putin’s victory has been confirmed at the elections of 26 March, unless it is by total Russian victory before that time.What is important is what happens once the conflict is over and that is hard to predict. It is obvious that the problems in Chechnya and the Northern Caucasus, which rank among Russia’s poorest regions, will not be over when the war itself is over. When the Chechens are able to return to their homeland, they will find very little with which they can rebuild their lives. In the past, after the previous war, nothing came of the promised Russian reconstruction and it was difficult to grant foreign aid due to problems on both the Russian and Chechen sides.At the same time, it is also beneficial to look on the bright side, for example, the progress made in the three independent Caucasian states, Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia. There is no longer a threat of war there and the European institutions should be aware of the different situation there, because it is possible to have it this way.
Mr President, Commissioner, I should like to begin by thanking Mr Garot for his report, even if I do not agree with its content. I agree that there has been a crisis in the pigfarming sector but I do not agree with Mr Garot’s proposal as to how future crises might be solved. The fact is that the pigfarming sector has been the only sector which has until now been able to compete on market conditions with just a relatively few forms of intervention such as export subsidies and private storage, and it must continue to do so. If subsidised by the EU, the regulatory fund proposed in Mr Garot’s report may well be of short-term benefit to small producers and help keep them artificially alive at the expense of larger and more productive producers who are, of course, the future for pigmeat production here in Europe.The extra EU subsidy proposed in Mr Garot’s report would, in my view, be quite unreasonable in a year such as this when, with Agenda 2000 and the forthcoming enlargement to include Central and Eastern Europe, we are to reform agricultural policy. We are not going to do this by inventing new aid schemes. Nor, moreover, is there any money in the Budget for this. I should like to have a statement from the Commission on the extent to which this proposal is in keeping with the trade agreements with the WTO and with Agenda 2000. In my view, it is in direct contravention of the common agricultural policy to establish national funds which will lead to unequal competition for European pigmeat producers. What is perhaps worse, however, is that it may contribute to a renationalisation of agricultural policy. I would therefore urge you to vote against both Mr Garot’s report and the Commission’s proposal so that the liberal policy which has so far prevailed in the pigmeat sector can continue.
Mr President, I should like to thank Mr Deva for a very good report, of which it might be said that it is as long as the Commission’s text is short. It no doubt says something about the relationship between Parliament and the Commission at the moment that the text presented to us has been produced very urgently and is therefore very brief and very simple.And, as Mr Howitt also mentioned, is it, of course, not particularly satisfactory to receive it four or five months after the regulation has in fact expired, but this is actually the usual way, although I do not suspect Mr Patten of being up to no good. It is the usual way things are debated in parliaments. A report is submitted which says that we must now extend the regulation. It is four months since it expired. Parliament is thus, in actual fact, compelled to say: all right, then, we really have to accept the extension for, otherwise, there will be even more people dying of hunger and destitution. It is not a fair way of doing things, and I shall therefore, like Mr Deva and others, also listen to what Mr Patten has to say. That said, however, I would also say that we need to implement this proposal as quickly as possible, for we must try to help as best we can and just hope that we can find a more satisfactory way of doing things in future. One simple little matter, which Mr Deva also emphasises, and which I too think we ought to discuss in the future, is the situation of women and children, which is, of course, extremely difficult and always will be in these situations. We therefore need to concentrate very heavily on this area and find some methodical ways of doing so, partly by involving NGOs and others who can make a contribution.
Mr President, those of us who come from regions with permanent structural disadvantages have real reason to be grateful to Mr Pomés Ruiz for his report and the innovative ideas it contains. I speak not only for my own country of Scotland but also from knowledge of some of the more remote Greek islands and of the north of Finland and Sweden. However, the problems of island status, mountainous terrain and sparse population affect many areas in other Member States and in some accession countries too.One very great merit of the report is its recognition of the effects where these problems are combined or aggravated. I welcome particularly in this regard the proposed amendment to Article 158 of the Treaty, as also the thrust towards mainstreaming issues of structural disadvantage into EU policy more generally.However, I would like to single out the calls for mountainous regions to be classified as agriculturally disadvantaged in relation to Structural Fund regulations, for permanent geographical handicaps to be taken more fully into account where rules on state aid are concerned and for the causes of emigration to be addressed. In the latter context, the relevance of isolation and difficulty of access is already well known, particularly where islands are concerned. Therefore, I wish to couple my welcome for today's reports with that of the analysis of island regions sponsored by the Commission. Some concern was expressed in Scotland that because certain types of island were excluded from the study they might suffer where future policymaking was concerned.However, looking to the emphasis it places on the disadvantages associated with small size and population of archipelagos and on double handicap – for example islands with mountains – it was clear there was no need for such concerns. Indeed, the suggestions made in the study for more research and exchange of information and for innovative projects under Interreg looked to bring real practical benefits to all those whose lives are island ones. My thanks are thus due to the Commissioner and to the rapporteur – indeed, both rapporteurs alike.
Thank you very much for that answer, Mr Fischler. Yet I would ask you to be more specific. You say that you are expecting a result to be achieved. The grassroots, the people who go to sea, are asking: when are we going to do something concrete? Could you give a date on which we can specifically introduce a very practical policy, for example a policy with hours instead of days, so that someone who sets sail in the evening and only actually starts working the next day is then dealt with according to the number of hours? Can you be more specific? What kind of result have you achieved with the agreements that you have made during the meetings today and yesterday?
Mr President, the House may be aware that the United States have announced this afternoon the arrest of a suspect for an alleged plot to detonate a radioactive dirty bomb on United States soil. The package of measures which were passed by this House before Christmas and immediately after Christmas on an effective European response to terrorism are still not on the statute book despite the pains that we went to deal with them quickly. On behalf of this House, I therefore ask you to call on the Justice and Home Affairs Ministers, who are meeting on Thursday of this week, to make sure that that package goes through as quickly as possible. I believe we owe it to our friends in the United States to ensure that Europe's safeguards against terrorism are as good as possible, since they are clearly still facing a very serious potential threat.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the subject we are discussing here is a difficult subject. There is a big difference between copyright and patent law. That this difference is difficult to define is evident from the amount of lobbying we have been experiencing. I therefore thank Mrs McCarthy, who has managed to clarify the line. Particularly in her briefing to aggressive lobbyists who I think have incorrectly interpreted this and who want to achieve exactly the opposite of what is intended with this directive. That is regrettable.The aim of this directive, in my view at least, is to prevent legal uncertainty. Mr Medina Ortega and many other fellow MEPs have already given examples of this. The European Patent Office in Munich is already using the United States method at the moment and is already patenting software as such. I believe that it is necessary to put an end to this by way of this directive, if we get it. I think that this is also what the lobbyists who want this directive voted down want. I therefore think it is odd that they are calling for this directive to be totally rejected. After all, this would make it possible for the US methods referred to by some fellow Members to remain in place and the Patent Office to continue to issue patents for thousands of software methods. I think that would be a bad thing.We have submitted a number of amendments. A large number of these have been approved by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market in the debate on the McCarthy report. A large proportion of them relate to the protection of small- and medium-sized enterprises, while the purpose of others is to achieve improved definitions. I therefore think that the report before us is already suitably balanced. I would like to see a number of improvements implemented, however. Among other things, I am referring to the grace period which my colleague Mrs Elly Plooij-Van Gorsel has already mentioned. I think it would be a good idea to establish this in the directive. I would even like to call upon the Commission to go further and include a grace period in all directives pertaining to intellectual property rights we may get in the future. It seems to me to be a good thing for the not-so-powerful inventors in particular to be allowed such a period of time so that they can find out whether there is a market for their products.I have also submitted an amendment concerning new inventions with software that is computer-implemented and which – to put it very clearly – is not patentable per se. This amendment intends to set a limited period for new inventions, if you separate them from the software, which – to put it very clearly – is not patentable. Why? Because with a patent application, even if you do separate it and even if the product is not patentable per se, you have a number of legal procedures at your disposal with which you can keep businesses out of the market for a long time. I think that would be a bad thing.I am also of the opinion that such an approach does not conflict with the non-discrimination policy of TRIPS as it does not exclude a particular sector. I think that it will simply be sending a clear signal.Now a few words about interoperability. Interoperability is necessary, but we must make a clear distinction between standalone inventions and inventions intended for use in conjunction with other inventions. We have applied this distinction in our amendment. I call upon fellow Members to support the directive in any event, in order to prevent legal uncertainty in the future.
Thank you, Commissioner, for a helpful and very informative reply. I do not think any blame for the problem lies with you because you do not have many battalions at your disposal! You can only set a lead.The price of heroin going down would suggest that the supply of heroin is increasing. We know that the crop in Afghanistan is getting bigger and bigger, and with the use of cannabis and synthetic drugs ever growing, clearly we are not winning the battle. So my question is: how can we strengthen policing in Europe in the fight against the use and the distribution of drugs?
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am in favour of establishing this Authority as described in Mr Whitehead’s excellent report as soon as possible. It is to be hoped that we will then enjoy sound cooperation between the Union and the Member States. With regard to risk analysis and deciding what is and is not safe, we will have a better scientific basis for solutions. Inspections will then be monitored by the agency based in Dublin. What remains is the policy, which is what we have reserved for ourselves, and risk management, in which the European Commission and Parliament must join forces. There is a great deal yet to be done on that front. We must have clear European standards and European measuring methods. The Member States and the Union must have a common system that works. Crises have shown that that is not the case and that the Commission has far too little power on that score. I assume that we will get the Authority on track under the Belgian Presidency but, under that Presidency, we must also take a crucial step forward towards a truly common European policy on food safety.
Mr President, I believe Mr Belder has just hit the nail on the head. Of course it is positive that this trial is now actually about to take place. It is important for Cambodia to deal with the ghosts from the past which are still haunting the country. However, we are not wild about what is about to happen there. It is a matter of better some of a pudding than none of a pie. We cannot do much else other than go along with it. Cambodia’s parliament has given its consent. Who are we then to criticise what is happening now, but we do have grave doubts about the way in which this has been organised.Firstly, every court in Cambodia will have difficulty guaranteeing its own neutrality. In this case, the Cambodian judges will be appointed by the Cambodian Supreme Council of Magistracy, which is ruled by the governing party. How neutral can those judges be? It is, of course, possible to appoint international judges, and they will certainly play a role in this, but will this role be so manifest that it will be clear to the Khmer Rouge victims that the judgments passed will actually be neutral and do justice to the situation as it was then? It is, of course, extremely odd that people such as Mr Ieng Sary, who played a key role under Pol Pot, have already been released from the trial because the Prime Minister dismissed them from that trial, and that was not done by a court of justice but by Mr Hun Sen.We are pleased that this trial is now going to take place, but we will monitor its progress with considerable suspicion. We will only be able to reach a conclusion as to whether what is happening here is a positive step once the court cases are over. We therefore hope things will go well, but we have major doubts.
Mr President, President of the Convention, I too have the honour of congratulating a predecessor for the impressive work he has done, but I cannot continue in the vein of Charles Aznavour and say ‘You are for me, formidable’.My group and our Liberal caucus in the Convention endorse your draft European Constitution. We commend the Constitution despite its insufficiencies because it represents a considerable step forward for Europe.The text before us is an endorsement of the Convention method as a way of reforming the European Union. A similar Convention should be set up if and when the time comes substantially to amend the Constitution. But to allow our citizens to understand the European Union, we must make a break from the era of changing the Treaties every five years in a Mao Zedong-style permanent revolution.As the Heads of State and Government prepare to inaugurate the Intergovernmental Conference on 4 October 2003, the message of the European Liberal Democrat group is this: stay true to the spirit of the Convention in your debates, and do not seek to re-open behind closed doors the difficult compromises which you agreed months ago. Where there are changes, be transparent, as urged by the Convention's President. Respect the contribution made by the European Parliament to drawing up this remarkable text by ensuring at least three representatives for Parliament at your working sessions.Time is short for the work of the IGC to be concluded in good time for the European elections. Let us use this time to sell Europe's new Constitution to our citizens, rather than reopening at length the debate.(Applause)
The meeting in Biarritz was typified by very strange happenings. It therefore comes as no surprise that governments clashed on essential issues. After all, they are now discussing the redistribution of power in Europe, but especially at this stage, it is vital to have a sound presidency that seeks consensus. Unfortunately, France acted more as a spokesperson for its own interests and for those of the large countries than for proposals which could bridge those contradictions, even if Mr Moscovici is now trying to convince us that the opposite is true. If the French Presidency carries on like this, the IGC will fall flat on its face on Nice’s hard pebble beach.It is of major importance for each Member State to continue to be represented in the Commission. A hierarchy becomes inevitable, as this is also what tends to happen in national governments. Even once the present candidate countries have joined, each Member State must be able to retain one junior or senior Commissioner. It is highly suspicious that the large Member States, which are behind intergovernmental cooperation, would argue in favour of a small Commission in which they themselves would not always be represented. A rotation system of this kind would lead to a serious weakening of the Commission’s position and that is exactly what we want to avoid. If the large Member States ask for the votes in the Council to be redistributed to a certain degree, then that is a reasonable request, but if they over-react, they will antagonise the small countries. In addition, majority decision-making goes, by definition, hand in hand with codecision; it is totally unacceptable to us to separate the two. Reinforced cooperation works very well with a minimum of eight Member States. For foreign and security policy, we could possibly do with fewer.It is difficult but certainly not impossible to reach agreement in Nice. But the French Presidency should not act as strangely as it did in “Bizarritz”.
Trying to put the principles of environmental sustainability into practice is no easy task. The Council is actually inventing the wheel.The impression that many of us have is that the discussions are taking place behind closed doors. I wonder whether the presidency is trying to open the discussion up, increase the transparency of the process and perhaps involve other organisations such as NGOs in the development of strategies.I should like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council in particular what is being done to press for the working groups to identify specific medium-term objectives, clear targets and programmes of action, so that we have something to get our teeth into and have a demonstrable means of measuring progress and achievement?
Mr President, I should very much like to congratulate Mrs Langenhagen on her report. I think that, in every way, Mrs Langenhagen has provided a clear description of the very major problems there have been in putting the FAIR Programmes into effect and, at the same time, in also checking up on how the programmes were operating. In that connection, I should like to make it clear that, in view of the very great degree of expertise possessed by the Commission, we cannot accept that so many of the things we adopted in the decisions have not been implemented.On behalf of the Committee on Fisheries, I should like to call attention to a fairly small number of points. Before new programmes are put into effect, the previous programmes ought to be assessed. With the help of the scientific research which is, of course, an important part of our policies – in this case, fisheries policy – a prior assessment needs to be carried out of what is wanted and of how the resources are used, so that existing resources can continually be adapted to catch techniques and catch opportunities. Against the background of what has happened, those of us in the Committee on Fisheries also believe that, whenever three Directorates-General are to coordinate and direct actions, it ought to be completely clear which Directorate-General is ultimately in control, with responsibility for putting matters into effect.
Mr President, Commissioner, I too would like to thank the rapporteur sincerely for a very balanced report. The major issue in this report is a ban on the use of antibiotics as growth promoters in agricultural production. I ardently support the ban. In certain EU countries this has already been done voluntarily. The long-term use of antibiotics has serious adverse effects when microbes develop into mutations that are disease-resistant.The rapporteur has drawn up a very balanced report, as I have already said. There are, however, different views in our group also. What should our attitude be towards coccidiostats as a remedy against parasites for use with poultry? It would be wrong if their use were not regulated at all and they remained a ‘grey area’. The aim must be to abandon the use of coccidiostats, but that cannot be done at once as they cannot yet be replaced by vaccination. A certain period of transition is therefore required. I enthusiastically support the rapporteur’s proposal.
Mr President, except for photographs and fine words, the Africa Summit has yielded very little. Africa asked Europe for more market access and debt repayment, and got vague pledges in return. Europe asked Africa to respect human rights more, fight corruption and cease violent conflicts, and got vague pledges in return too.The solemn declaration of Cairo was signed by governments which are anything but generous regarding clearing debts and opening up their own markets. The document is also signed by countries where human rights are being violated on a massive scale, where women are discriminated against, where the little funding that is available is used to massacre other population groups and where corruption has taken on almost ineradicable proportions.Wealthy Europe must grant generous aid to Africa in support of democratic institutions, primary education and health care and must substantially lighten the debt burden. The African countries need to understand that, without proper government, none of their developments will come to fruition, and both continents need to realise that strict population policy is absolutely indispensable. On the photographs from Cairo, the African and European leaders may be rubbing shoulders with each other but, in reality, there is a yawning chasm separating the two continents.
Mr President, first of all I would like to clarify for our colleagues from the future new Member States that we are voting today a budget of the EU of 15, which means that allocations we have voted for EU-10 in our first reading will be taken on board in the Amending Budget.Some EU-10 figures have been modified as a result of the conciliation, including an additional EUR 100 million in payments for the cohesion fund, compared to the amounts proposed by the Commission and the Council, that is Amendment 335 in block 1.I also have some technical corrections and precisions to make. Concerning Amendment 308 on OLAF, footnote 16 needs to be adjusted for the vote. Instead of two temporary A3 posts for the Supervisory Committee, it should read 'two temporary A7 posts'.On Amendment 378 concerning the Preparatory Action to support civil society in the new Member States, there should be a 'pm' entry instead of 'zero'.Last but not least, Members should be aware that a technical adjustment will have to be done in accordance with the vote, so that Chapter XX is coherent with the vote taken on the different policy areas.(Applause)***Report (A5-0473/2003) by Jan and Neena Gill, on behalf of the Committee on Budgets, on the draft general budget of the European Union for the financial year 2004 as modified by the Council (all sections) (11357/2003 – C5-0600/2003 – 2003/2001(BUD) – 2003/2002(BUD)) and Letters of amendment Nos 1/2004 – (14837/2003 – C5-0570/2003), 2/2004 (14838/2003 – C5-0571/2003) and 3/2004 (14839/2003 – C5-0572/2003) to the draft general budget of the European Union for the financial year 2004Before the vote on Amendment No 1:
Mr President, colleagues will have read in some of this morning's newspapers about the refusal of the Republic of France to recognise the extraterritorial status of the European Parliament. Apparently, the French government has refused to issue a visa to the President of the Republic of China to allow him to come to Parliament for a meeting. This is a denial of our status as a supranational Parliament, and I hope that you will be protesting to the French government about the fact that Mr Chen has not been allowed a visa. . .(Applause) –. . . and insisting that we, in the European Union, should be recognising a country which has existed as a flourishing parliamentary democracy for some 14 years and the status it must have in a world in which democracies must work together.(Applause)
Mr President, I am very disappointed at the delay, though I am delighted now that we are going to have clear compulsory labelling. I hope this will restore consumer confidence in beef, especially after the BSE crisis.I would like to see not only the country but also the region of origin on the label. I represent the West Midlands which has some of the best beef in the world – Herefordshire beef and Shropshire beef. I should like to see that go on the label. I would oppose very strongly the idea that 'EU' should be on the label and not the country and region of origin.I am also concerned about some of the words that might go on the label. One of those words is 'slaughtered'. That will not help with consumer confidence and might put some of the consumers off if they actually see where the animal was 'slaughtered'. I wish we could find a new word for it. Generally speaking, I am delighted that at last we are going to have clear labelling and, as I said, I want it to be the country and region of origin.
Mr President, this week we awarded the annual Sakharov Prize to three very worthy recipients who fight for peace and tolerance in an environment which is anything but peaceful and tolerant. The awarding of the Sakharov Prize is not only a grand ceremony but also an important demonstration, with echoes around the world. Hopefully, it also gives further courage to brave people coping with oppression and slavery. The prize is an expression of the basic values characterising EU foreign policy: respect for democracy and human rights throughout the world.Those who were awarded the prize last year live under difficult circumstances, but they live in peace. That is not so in the cases of two former recipients of the prize: Aung San Suu Kyi, who received the prize in 1990, and Leyla Zana, who received it in 1995. These two courageous women, both parliamentarians, have been kept locked up by their respective governments year after year, despite international pressure. Aung San Suu Kyi has been kept in solitary confinement and under house arrest for an unimaginably long time. It is eleven years since she was elected as her people’s legitimate leader. We have seen some softening of attitudes on the part of the Burmese regime. A small number of political prisoners have been released recently. That is not enough, however. Together with the other political prisoners in the country, Aung San Suu Kyi must be released immediately.Leyla Zana is held prisoner by a country that is applying for membership of the EU. I hope that Turkey will be able to play its part in this House one day. However, radical and genuine improvements are required in terms of human rights before we can even begin negotiating about membership. Leyla Zana and all the other political prisoners in Turkey must also be released.In this House, there is firm cross-party resolve to keep on reminding the world, including Burma and Turkey, of the fate of these two women and of the struggle for human rights, democracy and freedom of expression that they represent. I hope that the Commission can also talk about what it intends to do to ensure that next year is a year in which we help secure the release of these two women.
Mr President, this legislation has often been referred to as the lawnmowers directive. The fact that MEPs are spending their time discussing lawnmowers will no doubt confirm the impression which too many of our constituents have about the value of our work. If so, they should think again. The blue smoke from generators, lawnmowers, pumps and so on tells its own story. The cumulative effect contributes significantly to air pollution. So, in contrast to the last debate where I argued strongly that we should emphasise the principle of subsidiarity, this is a matter which is clearly trans-boundary and for both environmental and single market reasons should be dealt with by this Parliament.On the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy we all get used to industry representatives coming up to us and saying ‘don't do that, the time-scale is too short, the technology is not available’. So it has been a pleasure while this directive was passing through Parliament to be lobbied by one company – Honda, to which Mr Goodwill referred – which believes that the standards being proposed by the Commission do not go far enough. I realise it has its own reasons for this position. It has made the investment. It can meet the standards and it wants a competitive advantage over those who have not done the same. But is that not what we want overall? Is it not a good thing for manufacturers to be competing on the basis of setting the highest possible environmental standards?I am sorry the committee has not accepted some of the amendments I tabled at an earlier stage. I am sorry also that too many companies in my own country have failed to look to the future and want to continue producing dirty, polluting equipment instead of investing in the future and setting the highest standards so that they can compete properly across the world.Here in Europe we should be aiming to set these higher standards subject to the available technology. I agree with what Mr Goodwill said about chainsaws and the difficulty of reaching those standards insofar as that piece of equipment is concerned. But I also want to resist, as Mr Lange said, the Commission's proposals for averaging and banking. So far as I am concerned it allows manufacturers to continue to produce engines which do not meet the highest air quality standards and perhaps to even put new ones on the market. After all, we are not saying that the changes have to be made now. A transition period is built into the proposal to give time for re-equipment. Amendment No 18 suggests that some financial support and incentives might be given to manufacturers.I look forward to hearing the sound of my neighbour mowing her grass – and indeed my grass too, I hope – knowing that the air will be free from pollution and that the birds will not cough and splutter in the trees around my home.
We are broadly in favour of so-called flexible integration. By allowing a group of countries to go ahead and deepen cooperation within a particular area and, at the same time, preventing one or more Member States from curbing flexible integration, then integration throughout the European Union can go forwards. As long as the European Union’s common objectives are promoted within the framework of flexible integration and as long as no Member State is excluded from participating, we believe that this is a positive solution and ought to be developed.If, in a future EU with 25 to 30 Member States, the situation is to be avoided of a Europe à la carte in which the unity of the Member States is in danger of disintegrating, we nonetheless believe that at least half of all Member States must participate in flexible integration.We are also opposed to creating duplicate defence structures within the EU and consequently to flexible integration within the EU’s foreign and security policy. Following the EU’s failure in the Balkans, it is incredibly important that the EU as a whole should have the ability to act in its own immediate vicinity and be able to make personnel and resources available in time for conflict management and peace-keeping measures.The WEU’s institutional and operational structures ought to be fully integrated into the common security policy. The EU must acquire a credible foreign policy. We cannot rely upon the United States forever more. At the same time, it is important to retain the United States’s continued commitment, and we do not want the EU to develop a parallel mini NATO. Still less do we wish to see a limited number of Member States go further within the framework of flexible integration in this area. It is therefore important to retain the transatlantic link, even if there might, of course, be better coordination and a better distribution of labour. We believe that, in the future too, a credible common European foreign policy must be developed within the rules that apply at present. Decisions ought to be taken by majority vote, but the option of a constructive veto, whereby a country may choose to remain outside a particular process but not prevent others from pressing ahead, ought to remain.
Mr President, Mr De Clercq and myself have voted against the proposal because we did not think it was appropriate to be voting on the Middle East today. We have also voted against out of protest against the weak stance adopted by the European institutions on foreign policy in general and in the crisis situation in the Middle East in particular. Against this backdrop, to level criticism at the United States and its attitude smacks of arrogance. Finally, I regret the prejudice displayed by a majority of MEPs with regard to the situation in the Middle East which means, inter alia, that the fight against terrorism cannot be maintained adequately.
Mr President, Commissioner Patten wonders why Africa’s fateful history keeps repeating itself – with good reason. Millions of people are again threatened with starvation. This is not just caused by extreme drought. The blame lies mainly with the unusually irresponsible leaders who prioritise the fight for a dry piece of land over the suffering of their own people. Surely it is absolutely appalling that the governments of poverty-stricken countries such as Ethiopia and Eritrea buy arms on a massive scale instead of building up sufficient food reserves. The blinkered Ethiopian government, in particular, contributes through its obstinacy to the suffering of its own people. How else can you explain the fact that Ethiopia rejected the offer to use the ports of Massawa and Assab? As a result, aid is now unable to reach a large part of its own population. The Organisation of African Unity and the European Union must exert maximum pressure on the governments of Ethiopia and Eritrea to settle their dispute in Algiers, and aid workers must gain safe access to the population without delay.An Ethiopian Minister has said that the international community does not spring into action until the skeletons appear on television. He failed to mention that these macabre images are not only due to a lack of rain but mainly to a lack of proper leadership.I am pleased that Commissioner Patten has addressed the criticism to the effect that European aid is inadequate. Despite this, I would like to ask him what lessons he has learnt from how Europe responded this time round. It is difficult not to despair in the face of the misery in the Horn of Africa. We should nonetheless not lose hope. Nature can only destroy where people fail. After all, war and mismanagement are down to people. Africa’s fateful history does not have to repeat itself, provided that people’s lives take priority over the feuds among its shameless leaders.
It would be a disaster if the military were to resume power in Indonesia. This is why Europe has to support President Wahid in his attempts to restore peace in the Moluccas. So far, the European Union has done precious little. We need to provide more humanitarian aid and help the Indonesians gather Muslims and Christians round the negotiating table. A European mission, for example under the guidance of former Dutch Prime Minister Lubbers, could be of benefit here. TheGroup regrets that the arms embargo is not being extended. There is still a hotbed of tension and human rights are still being violated. As such, the General Affairs Council fails to observe our own European criteria for an arms embargo. The European Union’s decision is playing into the hands of the military and this is exactly what should not happen.
Mr President, the essentials have been covered, but I should like to reiterate the point that the right to propose legislation rests with the Commission. We have taken an initiative across the various political groups, which we presented in February to President Prodi. As a matter of law there has been a reference to political parties in the Treaty for more than seven years now. It states that the parties are a factor for integration, they contribute to the formation of European awareness and are a vital element in the democratic life of the Union and the political debate of the Union.However, like several of the rather aspirational articles in the Treaties, Article 191, the article referred to, lacks a certain operational content. The question is: can the Commission take an initiative which breathes life and operational content into the aspirations of Article 191? That really is what the debate is about in this House today.I share the concern of other speakers that the reports of the Court of Auditors – which, by the way, we fully anticipated in this House several years ago with the report of Professor Tsatsos, which pointed out the urgent necessity of validating parties in statutory terms – adds a new urgency. The institutions must be able to deliver accountability and transparency. This House does not have the right to draft legislation: that is the exclusive preserve of the Commission. We are asking for your assistance to ensure that this vital element, as the Treaty states, in the democratic life and political debate of the Union is validated by statute.
Mr President, as far as the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party is concerned, it is crucial that the Europe of the future should also be a social Europe. The political task is therefore to find the best way of achieving that objective. For us in the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, it is important that decisions should be taken as close to the people as possible. This applies especially to labour market and social policy. At the Lisbon Summit this spring, the EU’s Heads of Government adopted a far-sighted vision for the development of a social Europe. Importance was attached to promoting the EU’s position in the knowledge society, as it was to open coordination in pursuit of common objectives, but with flexibility and freedom in the choice of resources. This was established as a leading principle.In its communication, the Commission has found a framework for the social agenda which I think admirably reflects the spirit of the Lisbon Summit. In our view, open coordination is the correct route to go down if we are to secure a social Europe. There may be a need for legislation in some areas, but we have no need for a host of bureaucratic and constricting rules which bring European cooperation into discredit without producing real results. I also want to express my appreciation of the major effort which Mrs Van Lancker has put into drawing up the report. Her contribution has been very constructive, and if my Group is sceptical about a number of the main elements in her report, that is because we disagree politically, and that is, of course, understandable.We do not therefore share the report’s predilection for legislation at EU level. There are a number of areas in which we feel that too much detail is gone into. I want to emphasise that, in the EU countries, we have different traditions and different problems in the areas of the labour market and social policy, and the decisions of the Lisbon Summit acknowledge this. The Commission’s proposal strikes a good balance. Technological development and new methods of organisation call, of course, for flexible cooperation in which we concentrate more on objectives and on achieving results and less upon rigid regulation. Open coordination of this kind is not necessarily devoid of obligation. Of course, it must be binding, but it must be constructed from the bottom up and not developed by us specifying a host of rules and quotas centrally. Specifically, open coordination must be open both in the choice of resources and in the way in which everyone concerned is involved. It is therefore important that more public interest be created for open coordination and that the latter should be focused on to a greater degree, whether it be in employment policy or with regard to the issue of social exclusion which we are now addressing and to which open coordination can also be applied. It should not be secretive. The process should be much better known, and it is here that I think Parliament has something to offer. It can make the process more transparent and give it more public focus.
Mr President, Commissioner, since the signing of the Oslo Agreements in 1995, Israeli-Palestinian relations have entered a new phase, which should lead to a fair and lasting peace between partners which respect each other.The Union has played an invaluable part in this process, in its capacity as the primary source of economic aid to the region. The main reason for the problems of implementing trade agreements between the European Union and Israel, as has already been said, is the intractable problem of frontiers. The Israeli interpretation is not the same as the Union’s, as the Commissioner mentioned. At all events, it is a process currently under negotiation, a difficult one, but one that we all wish to see succeed.This is essentially a political process and the Union would be ill advised to look for a merely technical solution which would only be temporary, given the lack of legal frontiers between the two States. The settlement process must proceed by the only possible avenue, i.e. that of dialogue. A tripartite working group, comprising Palestinian and Israeli specialists as well as those of the Commission, should thus be set up. In this context, we may hope that the parties involved will manage to settle their differences and establish a creative solution for this transitional period.As was the case in Europe fifty years ago, the social and economic development of the Middle East is an essential condition for peace. We therefore have some expertise to bring to bear on the subject and we are particularly well placed to gauge the extent of what has already been achieved. Hopefully the Israelis and Palestinians will demonstrate the same optimistic faith in goodwill.
Madam President, the enlargement of the European Union is looming, and the report by the Court of Auditors leaves us in no doubt that there is still a great deal of work to be done in the candidate countries too. If we are to do all this on the already modest budgets we have at present, how are we to manage when these countries actually become members and start participating in the common agricultural policy and the Structural Funds? My group therefore feels it is imperative to start implementing our rules on financial control in the candidate countries without delay. We cannot start treating them as fully-fledged members soon enough in this respect. I would therefore ask the Court of Auditors to give us more information about this in future reports, so that we do not have to face any nasty surprises come accession day.Madam President, it is all very well having one representative from the Council here, but that is not enough, because – as has already been pointed out on several occasions – the majority of serious errors have been committed in the Member States. The Committee on Budgetary Control can no longer tolerate the impression being created, year in year out, that ‘it is a real shambles in Brussels’, when the main culprits are sitting in the capital cities. That is why, Mr Karlsson, we are asking you to give us a better idea of who is doing well and who is making a mess of it. Only then, i.e. if those responsible are named, will we be able to tackle them and really get down to putting Europe’s house in order, so as to win back our citizens’ trust.Finally, winning back that trust is also an important aspect, and I hope that by the end of this year, Parliament will have a clear statute, so that never again will these delegates be shown in a poor light in a Court of Auditors report. In order to achieve this, I also wish you, Madam President, a great deal of staying power, and would like to thank you for the commitment you have already shown to date.
Mr President, I want to thank the Commission for a sound report. I also want to thank Mr Hughes for emphasising the importance of focusing upon implementation of the legislation. Danish employers often maintain that, unlike their opposite numbers in many other countries, they have to comply with the regulations governing the working environment. To be frank, I am tired of having to listen to this remark without being able in all honesty to contradict it. I should like to be able to repudiate such assertions in the future. That is why it is important for us to obtain more focus on the practical implementation of working environment legislation so that a good and safe working environment really is created at all workplaces in the EU.That being said, we must also give careful consideration to the type of regulation with which we can best make the working environment safe. Legislation is not always the correct route to go down. Sometimes, improvements are better achieved through training, the sharing of experiences and the development of the social dialogue. A good example is the combating of stress and harassment as problems that can only be solved through better cooperation in the individual workplace. That is why I also think that the combating of stress and harassment is a matter for the two sides of industry.
Mr President, I am very sorry but we did announce this action six weeks ago – it has not exactly appeared out of the blue. We have given everyone, including the Presidents, the opportunity to change the agenda if this was considered necessary. Nobody acted upon this. I have not heard of any action to change the agenda, even on the part of the Members who are now complaining. This action, the quorum action, will continue, not only today, but every Friday in Strasbourg, until we have achieved our goal. One of the options is a full Chamber, because one thing that creates the bad image which Mr Bourlanges is talking about is people signing up here and leaving without doing their work. I have also done my homework and I do not want to mention any names, but we will be able to do this in future. We will challenge the quorum for each item on the agenda today. This will cause some irritation. It seems more sensible, therefore, to move all votes for today. We then do not need to continue with this and we can carry on with the debates and ask the Commissioner important questions.
Mr President, firstly I wish to thank the budget rapporteurs, Mr Färm and Mr Stenmarck, who have done some excellent work and aided the Committee on Budgets in its task.European Union budgetary policy is overshadowed by the unsatisfactory way in which the budget itself has been implemented. As Mr Elles stated in his speech just now, a good EUR 15 billion in budget commitments remained unspent last year, which is an inconceivably huge amount of money. The Commission has suggested the blame lies with the Member States. We must ask what the Commission intends to do in the area of legislation to eliminate this defect in the system. I would similarly like to ask the Council what it intends to do to simplify the implementation of the Structural Funds, pre-accession aid and other long-term programmes, in order to avoid the build-up of such enormous outstanding sums in the future, and, indeed, reduce them.The payment appropriations in next year’s budget stand at just 1.01% of GNP, which is to say EUR 5.9 billion below the financial perspectives. Such meagre sums will not help to reduce the arrears: they will, instead, pile up when the eastward enlargement of the EU has taken place and a lot of other problems lie ahead.Our group supports preparations for enlargement to the east. Next year is the last in which they can be carried out properly. For this reason, the administrative process must be reformed and made more flexible, so that human resources may be deployed more swiftly and appropriately than is the case at present. We support the reform of the Commission, but at the same time we insist on greater clarification in the areas of personal accountability and job descriptions. Moreover, we believe it is important that administrative accountability is also reflected in greater efficiency in such areas as making payments.
Thank you for that reply, Commissioner. I am very pleased that at least you have taken note of the idea. I suggest that the Commission's reluctance to take any further steps and propose legislation will now encourage businesses across Europe that are rather slapdash about protecting private data, as they will now be able to say that there will not be any legislation to punish them so they can easily let this slip. I fear that our exchange in the Chamber now creates the need for legislation to stop lazy companies from letting private data fall into the wrong hands. Do you agree?
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner Patten, the nightmare in the Middle East seems never to end. Like everyone else, my group feels extremely frustrated and powerless at our not being able to do more to solve this bloody conflict that is the cause of so much suffering. In the last few days, we have been talking a lot about terrorism and, clearly, nothing would mean more in the fight against terrorism than peace in the Middle East. The situation there is the source of huge frustration and fanaticism, and it inculcates into young people a feeling of hopelessness and despair that creates a breeding ground for recruiting suicide bombers who are themselves also very young.Two states – recognised by one another, democratic and existing side by side – would naturally have an enormously positive effect on stability throughout the region. Plans, projects, conferences and new initiatives – it feels as though we have tried everything. There is no lack of creativity when it comes to the Middle East. We need no more initiatives. We need political will, a desire really to sit down, negotiate and achieve peace. Unfortunately, there is nothing to suggest that today’s leaders, whether in Israel or Palestine, have this will.The Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party condemns the murder of Sheik Yassin. It was contrary to international law. Assassination may appear logical from a military point of view, but it is the worst of diplomatic means. Yassin had odious crimes on his conscience. He has never recognised Israel’s right to exist. In all respects, he was a loathsome terrorist. Nonetheless, we cannot accept this type of killing. It must be possible to make higher demands of a democratic state such as Israel. Hamas has now been given a new martyr and thousands of people burning with the desire for revenge. The Palestinian leadership must therefore show unprecedented strength and leadership in order to prevent a new spiral of violence. Arafat must emphasise that it is not Hamas that is setting the agenda.The  Group cannot be too emphatic in its condemnation of the suicide bombers. This senseless killing of civilians, innocent children, women and men is paralysing the Israeli people and making the slightest errand or social excursion fraught with mortal danger. The fact that ever younger teenagers and children are now being recruited as suicide bombers is the most repellent form of terrorism of all and can never ever be explained or excused.Israel and Palestine must return to the negotiating table and to the Quartet’s Road Map. I wish to thank the President-in-Office of the Council and Commissioner Patten for their work to bring this about.We must obtain an end to the violence, and the Palestinian Authority must once and for all recognise Israel’s right to exist. For its part, Israel must stop building the Security Wall, which is condemned by the whole world. Walls can never be the solution. The previously promised and announced withdrawal from Gaza must also begin.Peace in the Middle East and a peaceful Iraq in which I hope that the UN can be given a greater role would be very great progress and would have huge significance for the process of reform throughout the region. If, in the way that has been sketched out in the proposal now adopted, we succeed in incorporating these countries into a close and extensive network of trade and cooperation, it would constitute huge progress for the EU.The collapse of the Arab League summit is tragic, but there is yet hope that reference will still be made to human rights and democracy, which are the places from which we have to begin.Finally, Mr President, I just want to raise another issue about which the  Group feels uneasy, and that is the riots in Syria in which hundreds of Kurds have recently been killed. Many are imprisoned, and there are reports of members of this group being tortured following riots a week ago. I hope that the Council and the Commission can step up the pressure on Syria to put a stop to this killing.
Mr President, the European Union must act to ensure that sport is given its rightful place and due attention and that it is regulated by clear, precise rules. The system of sport which the European Union must aspire to must make the right to sport for all citizens a practical reality and aim to preserve the social function and traditional values of sport, while taking into account its economic and legal development.This is why the declaration on sport in the Treaty of Amsterdam annex is no longer sufficient to ensure that the predetermined objectives are met. Sport needs a new definition: indeed, it should be considered as an activity that is an integral part of the education and training of young people, free time and the integration of socially excluded and disabled people.In short, sport must be an essential factor in promoting the education and integration of all social classes. Moreover, it must be able to adapt to the new business context, within which it must evolve without losing its autonomy. Some changes are needed so that the European Union can help with the developments in the world of sport.The central committee has stated several times that it can no longer guarantee the pyramid structure on the basis of which sporting organisations and the social function of sport are currently organised. A legal basis is therefore essential since, without one, there is a danger that the objectives that have been reached so far will come to nothing.Europe must be more forceful in the fight against doping, a phenomenon which, unfortunately, is growing very rapidly and is no longer confined to the world of sport: the spread of this scourge has led to an increase in highly lucrative illegal activities, in which many criminal organisations have been involved, and we need to recognise that entrusting the fight against doping solely to sporting organisations has been a complete failure.Europe should therefore look into the possibility of promulgating Community criminal legislation which would be valid in all the Member States, and should consider setting up an independent, transparent, European anti-doping agency. Moreover, all sports-related economic activities must be subject to the rules of the EC Treaty. The monopolistic activity of sporting organisations has caused numerous problems and must therefore be subject to strict checks and possibly reduced.We need to encourage sporting associations, provided that aims are established to support amateur sport and to show solidarity with less-advantaged people, particularly the disabled. We need to try to improve the role played by sport and the role of the teaching of physical education in the curricula of schools.Furthermore, the work and status of sportspersons should be properly appreciated and safeguarded by the Member States. I feel that it is the European Union’s duty to help reintegrate into the labour market athletes who have made no provision for their futures once their sporting activity comes to an end. Europe must also call for sportspersons’ professional qualifications to be recognised at European level and for their vocational training to be promoted.There must be a firm, determined fight against the trade in young sportspersons, calling for the entry of young people into professional sport and their membership to take place as late as possible. Moreover, we need to ensure that the statutes of national and international sporting federations lay down mission statements and contain clear, precise rules.We need to combat the violence which takes place at sporting events and ensure that our citizens are protected. Furthermore, we need to eliminate the permanent sporting contract currently used in many sporting federations, as this violates the most basic principles of the Member States’ constitutions.In conclusion, until a legal basis is established for ‘sport’, Europe will not be able to do much in this area and will therefore have to consider the possibility of taking on a certain amount of autonomy in the sector, not in order to take it away from other bodies, but so that it can make an essential contribution to safeguarding the values and functions of sport.(Applause)
Mr President, we have in Europe fought for Zimbabwe’s independence for many years, where freedom and democracy are said to prevail, despite the colour of people’s skin. This democracy was to lead to an independent judicial system and separation of political and judicial powers.Twenty years after Zimbabwe’s independence, we can only establish that the Mugabe government has not achieved a great deal. The economy is in decline and, as for human rights, it is questionable whether the present situation is so much better than twenty years ago. But what is most surprising, is the fact that the rest of Africa, especially South Africa, is looking on in silence. My group is of the opinion that the European Commission must come down as hard on this regime as it did on any other regimes in southern Africa which rode roughshod over people’s rights. If not, this problem might well contaminate the rest of Africa, which could have disastrous consequences.
Madam President, my group welcomes this debate because it is a defining moment. This is the first time in the history of the modern European project that we stand at the threshold of seeing the mainstreaming of a party of the extreme right. That is deeply disturbing.The FPÖ contends that if one reads their literature and their programme, there is much in it that one could share. That may be, but let me place on the record today a long and difficult experience which we Liberal Democrats had with the Austrian FPÖ in our Liberal International family.As early as 1986, we had cause to believe that Mr Jörg Haider was not a man whose principles or attitudes were consistent with decency and modern liberalism. In November of 1991, after a long internal debate in Liberal International and many visits to Vienna to discuss issues, we suspended the FPÖ from membership and in July 1993 we expelled them.(Applause)We expelled them then and we continue to reject what Mr Haider stands for now. Let me share what we learned in that long experience. There were many in our ranks who said “read the text”. There were many more in our ranks who said “read the subtext”, “ look at the context ”. Words in politics can be incendiary, can be inflammatory, or can be conciliatory. We found that Mr Jörg Haider, as a wordsmith, has been a voice for racism and for xenophobia. He is a man who plays on fear and who has exploited vulnerability. That is why this debate is important – to put down a marker that when you mainstream extremism, something profound is happening in Europe today.(Applause)I hasten to add that our quarrel is not with the Austrian people. We respect the rights of the Austrian people to their own democratic process. We defend the rights and constitutional prerogatives of the Austrian people, but we here in the European Parliament have the duty to recall our fundamental values as set out in Article 6 of the Treaty – the values of freedom, democracy and respect for human rights. Every right-thinking person in this House believes that these are universal and indivisible without regard to colour, class or creed. We must promote and defend those rights, all the while saying to the people of Austria: our quarrel is not with you.I wish to say with regard to the initiative of the Portuguese Presidency that we support the spirit and the political intention behind it. It may not be an ideal initiative in terms of its structure but we accept Mr President-in-Office, that it is rooted in idealism and for that reason we are inclined to support it. I share with President Prodi a preference for the Community method and we must look at Article 6 and Article 7 of the Treaty. Article 7 talks about the possibility of suspension in the event of serious or persistent breaches of our fundamental values. We must find a way as institutions to benchmark and give meaning to this so that it has a reality and a substance. Then we can work together by the Community method to root out this cancer within our midst.I want to say Madame President some words to Mr Schüssel. Mr Schüssel is a man with an honourable record in European politics. He now intends to ride into government on the back of a political tiger. Mr Schüssel – you are assuming a very serious, personal, national and European responsibility. That responsibility, which you Mr Schüssel now take on, is to respect the letter and the spirit of the European Treaties.Finally, Madame President, this is a debate which touches on the heart of our democratic values and institutions and calls to mind that the price of liberty is eternal vigilance. On this continent, of all places, with the experience of hateful racism that we have suffered from in the past and at such great cost, we have to insist that today’s debate is not about interference with the sovereign rights of a State. It is a dogged insistence by the democratically elected part of the institutions of this Union that we will not as Europeans countenance turning the clock back.(Loud applause)
Mr President, Commissioner, I believe, in fact, that it is more by luck than skill that there have not so far been any disasters due to the absence of the rules mentioned by the previous speakers. When we deal with the positive side of the single market and create a common internal market, we must also deal with the darker side, namely bankruptcies.I consider that we are experiencing an historic moment in this regard. I congratulate the rapporteur for having so quickly progressed further with his report. I am, moreover, proud that my own country has been involved in tabling this regulation which we now hope will swiftly be adopted by the Council. I think it is an important step we are taking, even if each of the national systems is not especially influenced by it.To the rapporteur’s regret, I must unfortunately point out that our Group cannot support Amendment No 3 because we consider that it restricts creditors’ legal position and impairs their legal protection. With regard to Amendment No 6, we tabled a similar amendment in the negotiations in committee. I am a little surprised that you in the Group of thedid not support it then. We shall now support your Amendment No 6, but I wonder why you did not support our own amendment in committee.I also hope that we produce some insight in this context and that we shall be able to compare which procedures are quickest and best in the various countries.
Mr President, I should also like to thank Mr Menrad for his report, even if I do not agree with all the proposals it contains. The Commission’s report on the European works councils shows that there is a fair way to go before the law is implemented in practice and all the undertakings concerned have set up works councils. Is it therefore a correct response to require that still more businesses be covered by the directive and to demand tougher sanctions against those companies that do not implement the directive? The Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party cannot support reducing the size of those companies covered by the directive to five hundred employees in one Member State and one hundred in each additional Member State. I am also sceptical about some of the requests for sanctions that have been put forward here in Parliament. They may run counter to national systems which, in actual fact, operate well. Nor can it be reasonable for companies to be penalised differently for the same offence, as will happen if their managements’ actions are rendered invalid or if, by failing to provide enough information and by not consulting sufficiently, they are excluded from public subsidies or public procurement.
Mr President, why are human rights so far behind human progress? Science, technology and communication have broadened man’s knowledge and expertise and abilities beyond belief. Yet, the world is still being plagued by human rights violations on a massive scale, mainly due to war, poverty and misuse of power. We should therefore concentrate all our efforts on these human rights.But cultural value patterns underlie these violations too. Mrs Malmström was therefore right in asking, in her special report, that the position of the woman be given special attention. In a great many societies, the woman is still suffering at the hands of men as a result of institutionalised and sometimes legalised misuse of power. Not collective habits but the effects on the individual must be the overriding factor in our judgement. This means, for example, that we should not respect female circumcision as an old tradition but should fight it with all civilised means. European foreign policy is too easily thrown off course by purely economic interests. It is high time that human rights were given the priority they deserve, not only in theory but also in practice. In this way, Europe can make a substantial contribution to progress, progress of civilisation.
Mr President, it does not seem to me to be a good idea to stop elections from being held. That would naturally make a very odd impression. I understand the’ argument, though. The opposition parties are of course currently not yet ready for the elections and could be manipulated. My group would only be in favour of them if the words ‘without delay’ could be scrapped. We would then vote in favour of them. If matters proceed as formulated by the spokesman, we will vote against them.
Mr President, the Commission’s proposal for a financial framework for the period 2007-2013 is right in its priorities, and I wish to thank President Romano Prodi for that. The EU is lagging behind all our main competitors in the areas of economic growth and competitiveness, and that is why financial investment in the prerequisites for growth is the right and necessary area of focus.Research, the encouragement of innovation and the adoption of high technology are promoters of growth. So is a high-level infrastructure. Investment in transport and energy networks will immediately create new jobs and strengthen business conditions even in remote regions and those where development has fallen behind. The EU, including its most peripheral areas, must be taken account of in this work.Similarly, investment in the young is crucial. Programmes of education and training must be extended and diversified for youth to be able to acclimatise more readily to an international working environment.Another problem and priority is Structural and Cohesion policy. The new Member States need support for reconstruction and for strengthening their economic environment. This cannot be allowed to happen, however, at the expense of the economically frailer regions of the old Member States. That is why the provision of funds has to be increased on an equivalent scale.If the development promised under the financial framework is to succeed, the administration has to be thoroughly modernised. The reform of the Commission carried out this term is only a basis for reforms. Power and responsibility have to be devolved both within the bureaucratic machinery and from the Commission to the Member States.
Madam President, President Prodi, Commissioner Byrne, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to return, as Mrs Roth-Behrendt did just now, to the dioxin crisis and Belgium, of course, without necessarily discussing it as a purely Belgian problem.The recent Standing Veterinary Committee of the Union took the decision, a fortnight ago, to lift the embargo on Belgian beef exports, thus recognising the serious nature of the tests and the strictness of the standards which are now imposed by the new Belgian Government. The meat produced today in Belgium is henceforth certified as being of excellent quality, and may now return to its former position on the market. In fact, it seems to me that the European Union would be well advised to follow this example in promoting systematic testing for PCB and dioxin in all States, as this is not the case at the moment. It would be remiss of me not to mention the creation in Belgium of an agency for food safety, responsible for monitoring the entire food chain from beginning to end.Victims of a crisis which they did not cause and whose consequences they have no control of, Belgian farmers, moreover, are waiting for concrete evidence of European solidarity, so that this dioxin crisis may be recognised as epizootic, in the same way as the mad cow crisis in Great Britain. This, in my opinion, is the price of Community solidarity.We must now, four months after the start of the crisis, rise above the emotional atmosphere – you mentioned it too, Mr Prodi – which has often dominated the debate until now. It is not, as I said, an acute problem limited to Belgium, but is, indeed, a case with a European dimension. What do we want to eat? What level of quality do we want for our consumers? How can we guarantee this quality? It is our way of life, as you said, Mr President.To do this, then, the Union must invest more in the safety of the food chain, at every stage of the process, and decide, for example – as we have discussed – whether or not it is useful to create this agency, this notorious independent food agency, supposedly inspired by an American model or some other such thing. I note your various proposals, Mr Prodi, particularly citizens’ access to the early warning system; and Commissioner Byrne’s proposal on the White Paper.Having said that, the questions remain: when will this actually happen? What is the timetable for these proposals? I would also like to ask you a question too: to what extent does the Union, in fact, use, if at all, its own resources, such as, for example, the research centre into health and food safety located at Ispra?As the elected representatives of the citizens primarily affected by all these stakes, which are crucial, this Parliament must play an essential role in this area. The vote on the next budget, including a series of amendments designed to draw the initial lessons from this dioxin crisis, will indicate whether we have decided to lead the way or not.(Applause)
Mr President, the European Council accepted the Union’s strategy on Ukraine in Helsinki in December 1999. Now, more than a year later, we can say that the basic premise of the strategy is the right one. The report that was adopted in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy only features certain proposals connected with the implementation of the strategy and some supplementary proposals.In my report I have adopted the same general approach as Parliament did with regard to Mr Oostlander’s report as a basis for the Union’s policy on Russia. Thus the report openly criticises Ukraine for its shortcomings regarding the implementation of democracy, human rights, freedom of speech and the market economy. On the other hand, it recommends that the Union should improve cooperation to help Ukraine solve these problems.Ukraine, however, is very different from Russia. It has a major strategic importance both for Russia and the West. Ukraine is split internally. The western parts of the country were, for a long time, part of Poland or Austria-Hungary, and there the Russian population is relatively small. The country’s central and eastern parts have long been under the influence of Russia and many Russians live there. The Union must seek to bring about a situation where Ukraine can unify and have balanced relations with Russia, on the one hand, and the West, the European Union and NATO, on the other. Ukraine now clearly orientates itself towards Europe. We have to encourage and support the country in this.I have tried in my report to place Ukraine in a wider pan-European context. My basic reason for this was the views adopted in Elmar Brok’s report on enlargement. Paragraph 56 of the report reiterates the idea of a new European area that would be based on a market economy and free trade, protection of the environment, democracy, human rights and security. Paragraph 57 calls on the Council to develop a comprehensive pan-European policy for the Union by combining the enlargement process with the bilateral and multilateral external relations of the Union. It goes on to propose that the EU should make systematic use of both the Council of Europe and the OSCE for preparing the present and future candidate countries for membership and for promoting the goals of the CFSP and integration on the pan-European level.These paragraphs are, to some extent, open to interpretation. It is clear that Parliament hopes that a comprehensive pan-European policy will be created for the Union. But the new European area’s connection with the proposal that the Union should start using the Council of Europe and the OSCE as a tool of pan-European policy remains open to interpretation. My own thoughts are that creating a new European area as a separate organisation could easily come into conflict with the fora that already exist. For that reason, we should first make use of existent organisations and act without prejudice in this regard.Finally, I would like to thank the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, and, especially, the ‘shadow’ rapporteurs for their constructive attitude to the report. I would like to make one criticism, however. The committee adopted too many amendments, in my opinion. As rapporteur, I prepared a draft version which already exceeded the set length. The 21 paragraphs of the draft contained everything that was essential, in my view. In the vote on the report, however, 37 paragraphs in all were added – many of them against the recommendations of the rapporteur. I think we should consider together ways of preventing adopted reports from being made too bulky or fragmented in committees and in plenary. On this basis I am wary of amendments which would only serve to increase the report’s length.
My vote in support of the de Veyrac report on the application of the Convention Concerning the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage in the Member States of the European Union is based on the conviction that we must enhance the cultural dimension of the European Union. We must work to ensure we have a cultural policy in the Union which highlights, among the main features of its spiritual richness and that of the Old World, its cultural, linguistic, architectural and artistic diversity and all those elements that make up our common cultural heritage. This is clear when you travel around the Union and see how the diverse spiritual trends over the centuries have been embodied in our monuments, artistic styles, value systems, religious and spiritual trends, and schools of philosophical and scientific thought. In short, and in accordance with the Treaties, we must go deeper with our European cultural policy, supporting and protecting our cultural diversity, a factor which in turn defines the European Union. The de Veyrac report is a laudable contribution towards this.- Doorn report (A5-0351/2000)
Madam President, the Liberal Democrats in this House welcome the decisions of the extraordinary European Council. We are pleased that it took on board proposals from this House in the field of justice and home affairs on combating terrorism and indeed that it reviewed the Union's policies in other areas to ensure that we have joined-up thinking in our approach to this very serious problem. We regret, however, that it took a shock like the bombing of the Twin Towers and the Pentagon to push the Union into using the legal powers that it has under the Treaty of Amsterdam to act in fighting terrorism.Liberal Democrats welcome particularly the Commission's proposals of yesterday for a Council Regulation to freeze the assets of terrorist groups. We note its request for urgency and will be pushing this morning within the committee I have the honour to chair to make a recommendation to Parliament this afternoon to adopt those proposals. I hope that the Committee of Permanent Representatives meeting this morning will add its request for urgency to that of the Commission.The need for action in this area throws into sharp relief the weaknesses and the contradictions of the European Union post-Amsterdam. These were not dealt with properly at Nice. I hope they will be dealt with at Laeken and through the convention which will be established.Commissioner Patten yesterday rightly lamented the inability of the European Union to act fast in situations like this and thus to enjoy the confidence of its Member States and to coordinate the policies of its Member States in an area where a supranational threat requires a supranational response. At times like this the Union must act fast, but finds it cannot act fast. The mechanisms of the third pillar leave Mr bin Laden laughing all the way to the cash machine. I challenge the national governments to explain to our citizens why Europe has been incapable of acting fast because of the curious and complicated mechanisms of the third pillar. When we act fast we find that we need urgency and urgency frequently leads to bad law.We cannot continue to adopt the necessary security measures for our citizens in a way which is infelicitous for the Union's institutions, incomprehensible to our citizens and ineffective because it allows for no proper legal, democratic or administrative control of decisions. I hope that the convention set up by Laeken will look at invoking Article 42 of the TEU to bring these policy areas fully within the core competences of the Union.Many measures will be needed in the coming months. Commissioner Vitorino has provided us with an anti-terrorism road map outlining such measures. Clearly, in our consideration of these, a delicate balance will need to be struck between the security needs of our citizens and the civil liberties which make our democracy what it is. The President-in-Office said this morning that we should not be blown off course on our other agendas. I agree with him. Those agendas include our agenda to consolidate citizens' rights within the Union and our agenda of anti-discrimination. Liberals in this House will defend, with the President-in-Office, the rights of EU citizens.The House has received a proposed regulation on the freezing of assets. That regulation could potentially, depending on its implementation, have a disastrous effect on many legitimate Muslim-owned businesses. Therefore Liberals will be calling for a sunset clause in that regulation giving it a limited life to make sure that it is not being abused in its implementation. We look forward to proposals from the Council for the involvement of the European Parliament in determining the names that will be put on the list in the annex  to that regulation.In conclusion, Article 6 says that the Union is founded on rights. The Charter defines those rights and we hope that the convention will agree to insert the Charter fully into the Treaties.(Applause)
Mr President, the Commissioner has said that there is no agreement and no decision, but there is an interim rule. My question therefore is how long can such an interim rule be valid and how must we view it? Protection of personal data is a fundamental right under Article 7 of the EU's Charter of Fundamental Rights. It is probably also going to form part of our European constitution. So this is a very serious matter. All this is also laid down in our directives and in particular Directive 95/46/EEC. It also contains exceptions that we could meet.But as far as I have read these exceptions, I have to say that the transfer of data to the US is systematic and does not fall under the exception of Article 13 of that directive. It is also the case that the data in question are so all-embracing that you cannot say that they are not relevant and not excessive and therefore cannot fall under Article 6 of that directive. In addition, Directive 95/46/EEC says in general that the transfer of personal data to a third country may only take place if that third country offers an adequate level of protection. In my opinion this has not been satisfied either.I have listened carefully to the Commissioner, who has said that he has done his best to find a balance between maintaining privacy and protecting the airlines. I have some sympathy for that, but I nonetheless believe that he has gone the wrong way about it. There is no democratic legitimacy and agreements have been concluded that could not be tested by the representative body. That is totally wrong. At the moment my position is that the measures in their present form must be suspended.
Mr President, on behalf of theI would like to welcome Greece into the euro and say that we shall certainly be voting in favour of Greek membership. For those other ‘out’ countries, including my own, I very much hope that they will be able to join the euro soon. I very much regret too that there are so few British Conservatives here in the Chamber today because it shows, with Greece now the twelfth member of the euro zone, how far from reality British euroscepticism about the future of the currency is.The euro has successfully delivered low inflation, rising growth, falling unemployment and protection for the euro zone economies from the ups and downs of the foreign exchanges. Indeed, the British perception of the euro as a failure, because of its fall against the dollar, simply misunderstands the whole project. The key test of a currency is price stability within the economy, not the value of the currency against other currencies outside the economy.On the test of internal stability, with inflation at less that 2% and growth higher at 3.1% in the euro zone than in Britain, the euro is clearly succeeding. Indeed, research at the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi recently calculated the euro’s value as if it had existed over the last few decades, weighting each predecessor currency's value to create a synthetic euro. Historically, that research found that the euro actually swooped between a high of USD 1.70 in December 1979 and a low of just USD 0.69 in February 1985. In other words, the euro could stay within its historic trading range and happily now either fall by a further 23% or rise by 188%. Certainly that synthetic euro included currencies such as the Italian Lira, but the same point applies even to the mighty German Mark on its own.If the euro is a weak currency, than the Mark was positively anaemic. It plunged to DEM 3.45 against the dollar at the end of February 1985, which is a third below its current rate of DEM 2.16 to the dollar. Within three years, and a dollar crash, the Mark was back to DEM 1.57 during December 1987.The truth is that the history of foreign exchange is a history of gross misalignments, of overvaluations and undervaluations, each inflicting either depressive pain or inflationary costs on the economy and, as Greece has rightly recognised, the euro is a way of regaining control over a key part of our economic environment.
Mr President, it is morally reprehensible and completely unacceptable that the EU Commission is to shelve consumers’ justified demands to know about the origin of the foods we all eat. The EU Parliament ought to put the screws on and ensure that all EU countries label beef and register cattle. Back in 1997, the governments of the EU countries resolved in the Council to implement labelling and registration. This has unfortunately only happened in fairly few countries, and there is a tremendous amount of trouble getting the resolution implemented in a number of other countries where not even a start has been made on setting up a labelling system.For the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, it is crucially important that consumers’ confidence should not merely be preserved but also increased, that public health should be protected and that the quality of foodstuffs should be high. It is therefore completely unacceptable that the Commission should not have put this important area in order. Consumers should be able to rely upon the quality of the beef they buy, and they can only do that if it is possible to monitor the animal concerned from its birth until such time as the beef ends up on the dinner table. That is to say, the animal’s country of origin, the country in which it was slaughtered, the name of the abattoir and the identity of the butchers should be known.The Commission’s proposal to postpone compulsory labelling and registration is quite unacceptable. We can support Mr Heinz Kindermann’s opinion and we also expect at least EUR 15 million to be allocated for the purpose, for it is an urgent matter to get these arrangements in place.
Mr President, we in the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party are clearly working on a joint position which we will vote on at noon, in order to condemn violence and support dialogue, but also so that the short-term efforts, such as the appointment of a mediator and the support for the Traikovski plan, should be immediate measures. It is also important that the medium-term efforts and the Union’s responsibility in this area – the association agreement is clearly an important factor – make positive progress.I would like to devote my speech to two additional aspects of what is happening in the FYROM and which clearly affect the European Union. The first is that there have rarely been such difficult tests of the European Union’s external image as the successive crises in the Balkans, and that is still the case. Although there has been a substantial improvement since the appointment of the High Representative, Mr Solana, due to his management and his cooperation with Commissioner Patten and the Council, it is clear that all our will and our effort must be aimed at making our action more effective and saving our political prestige, since, for the image of the Union – and this has been made clear today by President Verhofstadt and Mr Patten and Mr Michel – a lot is at stake.Another important effect for the European Union – which has not been mentioned and is indirect, but very important – is its repercussions for the enlargement process. Although by chance, it happens that the countries directly neighbouring the FYROM – Bulgaria and Rumania – are the countries which have the greatest difficulty in achieving the sufficient economic development with a view to enlargement and the negotiation. I believe that this proximity has a negative effect on the conflict in many respects – not only economic – and a very direct effect on the process of direct investment in these countries. I believe that our intervention, or that of our countries, should take good account of this, because countries such as Bulgaria, for example, have made a very positive contribution to stability in the area.
Madam President, I will try and keep to the timetable. Mrs Buitenweg has drawn up an excellent report as a basis for Parliament’s budget next year. My sincerest thanks go to her accordingly.Among the main challenges for the European Parliament are improved administration and increased efficiency. The EU’s forthcoming enlargement will make these especially necessary. Next year, we must prepare for the fact that in 2004 Parliament will grow by more than a hundred members bringing with them a dozen or so new languages. This will make very special demands on the organisation and enhanced effectiveness of the translation and interpreting services. There will also be totally new demands on general administration, which is why it is absolutely necessary to extend Activity Based Budgeting and Activity-Based Management to parliamentary administration also.The other problem is buildings policy. There must be an aim to rationalise the work of Parliament so that buildings expenditure can be cut. Buying property is quite acceptable when money can be saved as a result. On the other hand, we must insist that the Member States that have seats here do all they can to ensure that a swift decision can be taken on settlements in respect of property. It does not do the host country credit if the European Parliament in its territory has inconceivable difficulties trying to establish a rational building policy.
Mr President, I am glad to hear that the Commissioner is pressing for eight Members of this House to attend COP6, but I want to emphasise that we want to play a constructive role in EU strategy making. We do not want to be squeezed out as Members were who attended the World Health Organisation conference recently.We see ourselves working together at a set of European institutions fighting to improve the situation and ensure that the Kyoto Protocol is ratified. Compare, after all, our common agreement with the experience we had just recently at that tele-conferencing session with members of the US Congress, which frankly was a very depressing experience. The chairman of the Health Science Committee spelt out, from the American point of view, that this was an economic issue, not an environmental one. That really spells out the differences between the approach of the United States representatives and those of this Parliament. There was no recognition of the need to make sacrifices or to accept that we have historic responsibilities on both sides of the Atlantic as the largest emitters of greenhouse gases.For all our good intentions, however, it looks as though in the European Union far from cutting CO2 emissions by the end of this decade we shall end up increasing them. So the prospects for COP6 look poor, but the prospects of our meeting our goals even with Kyoto do not look that good either. That is not helped by governments across the European Union responding to calls to cut fuel prices. If we are serious about the environment, these must be resisted. We should not be cutting fuel tax.I say 'yes' to emissions trading – let us get on with it. Let us also hurry up with the measures we need to take in each Member State cutting traffic emissions, increasing energy efficiency, promoting renewables and CHP. The sad truth is we will not succeed in preventing climate change anyway, but if we do not start taking action now, the problems will become all the worse.
Mr President, Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I should like to thank Mr Radwan for a splendid report. Pages 60 and 61 of the ECB’s annual report contain a discussion of the situation in Denmark in 1999. It is pointed out that, in 1999, the Danish krone was stable and marginally stronger than the central rate in ERM 2. This situation has, unfortunately, changed because there has been pressure on the Danish krone in recent months. Speculation against the Danish krone is occurring primarily because Danish opinion polls suggest that there may be a ‘no’ vote in the forthcoming referendum on 28 September. If there is, in fact, a ‘no’ vote in this referendum – and I very much disagree with my French colleague who has just spoken and who, if I understood him correctly, is hoping for just such a vote – then speculation against the krone may be expected to increase, in which case Denmark will have need of that ECB support in defence of the krone which is provided for in the ERM 2 agreement. I would therefore ask you, Mr Duisenberg, to clarify what the limits will be for the Danish ERM 2 agreement and to answer the following questions. Firstly, what conditions must Denmark fulfil before the ECB will intervene in support of the krone? Secondly, how much in the way of foreign reserves will the ECB, in practice, spend on buying up kroner in order to support and defend the Danish currency? Thirdly, for how long a period will the ECB be prepared to support the krone? And fourthly and finally, can you tell us whether the ERM 2 agreement is to be in force for an unlimited period of time?
Mr President, Commissioner, I do not normally praise the Commission but, on this occasion, I wish to do so both in view of the Green Paper, or the follow-up to the Green Paper to which you refer, and also in view of the fact that we are soon to have the opportunity to cooperate within the ‘enforcement sector’ in the matter of consumer protection.I wish to put three questions:Will any sector be excluded from a fair trade directive’s being applied to it? We now see that, in spite of our having obtained a financial services directive, there is still a lot to be done.How will the European Parliament be associated with the group of experts?What is to happen concerning the proposal for a regulation on sales promotion measures?I also regret that Parliament has still not been able to come up with a response to the Green Paper, but that has quite a lot to do with shortcomings in the way in which Parliament is structured when it comes to dealing with consumer issues.
Mr President, the question today is to what extent the Johannesburg Summit achieved actual results, and what the EU's role was in this. Has any progress been made in this ambitious area? Have new definite objectives, and above all, timeframes, been set? Have old objectives been confirmed? A question that is even more important, in my view, is: where do we go from here? Will we go into action worldwide? It is high time we did! Taking an overall view and considering the climate in which the negotiations were held, my group takes the view that the outcome is reasonably positive. It could have been worse. However, we certainly have a few points of criticism. I want to make it clear, though, that we are particularly positive about the role that the European Union played. It was a pioneering role, certainly as regards worldwide commitment to ensuring that a million people have access to basic sanitary facilities and, in their own way, be given human dignity, better health and a better living environment.Furthermore, we reached agreement on curbing overfishing, dangerous chemicals, and made multinationals accountable for destructive practices. These too are all firmly on the agenda. We also welcome the commitment concerning gender mainstreaming. We also believe that the liberal ideas, on which we have insisted for so long, are firmly embedded in the plan of action. I am, of course, referring to the fight against corruption, maintaining the rule of law, democracy, human rights and good governance. In our view, these are crucial elements to address before we can embark on new partnerships with developing countries.On the whole and considering the climate, we should count ourselves lucky that we managed to persuade the world not to go in for any backtracking, despite the strong opposition from the United States and some other countries. Indeed, they displayed an unwillingness to reach reasonable agreements. The US, in particular, managed to dig its heels in at every opportunity. This is beyond me. It is mainly thanks to the EU's united stance that any progress was made at all. I saw it with my own eyes: it was the EU at its best. A true world player. A trend setter. The EU set the agenda time and again. This is why we should pay tribute to the negotiators.We also have some criticism. In our view, the EU skated over the subject of sustainable energy too quickly. In our view, the new partnership for energy should have been launched in a better way and should have been discussed beforehand in Parliament. My final point relates to political legitimisation, which concerned me, and I agree with my fellow MEPs. I shall not go into any more detail. It is a missed opportunity that the EP did not act more clearly as Dritte im Bunde [Third in the Alliance].Finally, however, I should nevertheless like to express my thanks, respect and appreciation.(The President cut the speaker off)
Mr President, as draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, I would like to say that, as regards taxation of aircraft fuel, I am pleased by the reaction from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. They have, on the whole, taken on board the arguments that I have presented.Aircraft are currently the fastest growing source of greenhouse gases. It is estimated that around 5 percent come from aeroplanes. The number of flights is also expected to double in around 15 years.If we are to be able to live up to the requirements for reduced emissions of greenhouse gases we must take every measure possible to limit them. An example of such a measure is to make more use of financial instruments of control. As Mr Van Dam has also said, aircraft fuel should therefore not be exempt from tax. The Commission’s communication states that the effect is so small that it is not worth doing anything about it. I object to this line of reasoning. Aviation is a fast growing sector. If the effect is small today, it will, in any case, be larger tomorrow. This kind of reasoning is dangerous because it can easily lead to a situation in which no one does anything anywhere.We must start at one end. We cannot have the present structure and the present technology and at the same time achieve the environmental objectives. We must either change the structure or the technology or both. I think that the fairest thing from the point of view of the different transport sectors and also from the point of view of competition is for us to lead the way and introduce aircraft fuel tax within the EU. At the same time, however, we must pursue the line of revising the Chicago Convention of 1944 so that we establish a different system in the international area.
Mr President, my point also relates to the Minutes. I wonder if it might be recorded on page 11 in the English version of the Minutes, at Item 8 where we talk about voting time, that the votes commenced at 12.12 p.m. They were advertised on the screen as commencing at 12.15 p.m. and for that reason some of us missed some of the early votes.
Mr President, in recent days, I have made one last attempt to achieve compromises, and I have offered a package deal to this end. Unfortunately, that was not successful, despite every effort on the part of the shadow rapporteurs, and for this I should like to thank them nevertheless. At all events, we can say that, whatever happens, today is a real ‘E-day’, an ‘environment day’, because now, for the first time in the history of the European Union, we are adopting legislation that gives us a legal basis for making polluters pay for the damage they cause. I think that that is one point we have scored.(The President declared the common position approved as amended)***Recommendation for second reading (A5-0425/2003) from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, on the Council common position with a view to a European Parliament and Council regulation laying down Community procedures for the authorisation and supervision of medicinal products for human and veterinary use and establishing a European Medicines Agency (10949/2/2003 – C5-0463/2003 – 2001/0252(COD)) (Rapporteur: Rosemarie Müller)Before the vote:
Mr President, concerns about the effects of GMOs on human health are in the minds of many of us overshadowed by doubts about their effects upon other species of plants or animal life and about the control of the world's seed bank by a handful of companies. But it is animal and human health which is the issue before us and the  Group is united in its belief that products need to be clearly labelled so that consumers can make proper choices.We are, however, divided about the clearest way of achieving this result. A majority accept the Commission proposals but want products with more than 0.5% of GMOs or less if practicable, to be labelled as such. Traceability rules should be established so that this is done even when the presence of GMO DNA cannot be identified. But we risk overwhelming the consumer if we label every foodstuff made from products derived from animals fed on GMOs.I am opposed to steps being taken which will eventually lead only to GMO-free or to non-GMO products being labelled if such a thing is possible, because this will result in normal foods being classified as special and transfer the burden of proof and costs away from GMO producers. We may have to do this eventually but not yet. GM crops have the potential to bring major benefits, but they also pose threats to the environment. Rules for trade are needed, but I will not be sorry if consumer preference slows the pace of GMO development and allows us more time to assess the full consequences of their use.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, I would firstly like to express my group’s agreement with the text of the reports we are discussing, but not with some of the statements which have been made on presenting them to this plenary session.The immediate aim of this debate is essentially to prepare for the Spring Council and it is intended to respond to the corresponding assessment of the so-called ‘Lisbon process’, complemented by the decisions of the Gothenburg and Barcelona Councils. Within this context, I would firstly like to express my concern and that of my group at the fact that the aim established for 2010 of being a more competitive economy with higher quality and greater levels of employment has not been achieved. When assessing these three years, despite the difficulties of the American economy, we find that, in terms of growth, productivity levels and employment levels, we are further behind than three years ago. It is therefore clear that there is a very worrying difference between what is preached in the Councils and what is practiced in the Member States, and this prejudices the Union’s overall result.We in thebelieve that the main problems principally stem from the lack of compliance with the liberalisation processes agreed, since, as the report by Mr García-Margallo y Marfil points out, there are still significant structural reforms to be carried out and certain basic markets, such as the labour market, must be made even more flexible.In the current situation, which is not exactly one of the best economic situations the European Union has been in in recent years, there are three key aspects which particular attention must also be paid to. Firstly, we must improve the level not just of research and development but of its application within the productive system. Let us hope that this historic agreement on the European patent, as Commissioner Solbes has mentioned, will provide promotion in this area, but that it will also pay special attention to the creation and development of small and medium-sized businesses based on the application of new technologies, because, as was demonstrated in the 1990s, they are significant sources of work.I do not have the time to mention other issues, Mr President, but I would like to end as I began: rather than making grand statements in Spring Councils, we must comply with what has been agreed.
Mr President, allow me to make a brief remark. Various speakers have observed that it would be statutorily impossible to change the 70/30 proportion to 50/50. That is not the view of the legal affairs service of Parliament, which has told me that it quite definitely is possible.
Madam President, before the summer break the Parliament's Bureau finally decided that it would publish the names of all the assistants of Members paid under Article 14 secretarial allowances, but since then we find that the Bureau and the Quaestors have qualified their decision and are requiring the individual consent, of both the Members and the assistants, before they appear upon the list.Surely, this makes a mockery of transparency and transgresses the principle that the names of all those who are paid from public funds should be published. Can I ask you to request the Bureau and the Quaestors to review their decision?
I understand the need to provide better information and more quality guarantees for breast implants. It is, however, going too far for Europe to say that women should protect themselves. We should not regulate ‘self-esteem and other conceptual alternatives to breast implants’ in Europe. Nor should Parliament urge Member States to ‘concentrate on promoting and securing acceptance of the image of women as they actually are’. Europe must not prescribe a ‘national breast-implant register’ or annual ‘compulsory aftercare examinations’. This reinforces the patronising image that the European Union already has. It would be much better for Member States to issue their own legislation in this regard.I believe that women are perfectly capable of taking decisions for themselves and can be advised very well by their doctors, and that a ban on advertising is therefore not necessary. We are always getting bogged down in details. Is this Europe’s business? Sometimes you wonder which bureaucrat sitting behind his desk thought this one up.I have therefore voted against the resolution.
Madam President, I should like an error to be rectified. In Annex I of the Minutes for yesterday, Wednesday 21 July, Mrs Neyts-Uyttebroeck's name appears under the Liberals in the list of Members that took part in the vote. Mrs Neyts-Uyttebroeck is no longer an MEP. However, Mr Ward Beysen, who succeeded Mrs Neyts-Uyttebroeck, is an MEP and he participated in this vote. Might I then request that the name Neyts-Uyttebroeck be deleted as regards the first round of voting as well as the second, and that the name Ward Beysen be added.
Madam President, Rule 2 of our Rules of Procedure says that we all sit here as individuals, not as agents of political parties and we do not take orders from outside.(Applause from the centre and left)The essence of democracy is that individuals have guaranteed rights against the state. The Conservatives, I am sorry to say, are now wishing to introduce a new doctrine that political parties have power over individuals. That is the beginning of totalitarianism and that is why I left them.(Applause from the centre and left)
Mr President, following consultation yesterday, I should like to propose an oral amendment to the end of paragraph 41, adding a few words which take into account the actions taken by the political groups in response to criticism a couple of years ago from the Court of Auditors. It would read as follows: 'Notes the Bureau ruling on budget line No 3701 following the answers from the political groups to the Court of Auditors' special report.' That is the addition and it is also in the voting list.(Parliament accepted the oral amendment)Amendment No 13:
Mr President, the Europeanstrongly welcomes the Morillon report which we find skilful, frank and forceful. We will resist the efforts, some of them fairly spurious, to ut the balance the report successfully achieves, especially those amendments which seek to set up the European Parliament as a tribunal upon the past.Turkey is clearly the place for a debate on the past as part of its general self-examination concerning fundamental rights. Such a self-appraisal will amount to a veritable cultural revolution. We should be satisfied that process is proven to have started.The Morillon report and the accession to partnership commit the European Union to Turkey's candidature. It is now up to Turkey to show that it is committed to membership. The European Parliament will play its part in fostering relations with political parties, the NGOs and the press, as well as developing its tricky and sometimes fraught relationship with the Grand National Assembly. European Liberals are certainly prepared to play their part in bringing closer the prospect of Turkish membership and the spreading of prosperity, stability and security to all European peoples.
Mr President, the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party thinks that MEDIA Plus is an extremely commendable and important programme which can help strengthen cultural and linguistic diversity within the EU. European film production is an important part of the EU’s cultural and media policy, and theconsiders that it is important to support the European film industry which is exposed to a very great deal of competition, especially from the American film industry. A special effort must be made on behalf of the European film industry, and that is something thesupports. On one important point, however, we shall be voting against the rapporteur’s recommendation, and that is the budget for the programme. We are opposed to increasing the amounts proposed by the Commission, as recommended by the rapporteur. It is the European Parliament’s and the EU’s task to establish the correct framework and conditions for a cultural policy of this kind, but it is not a proper part of our remit to spend an exorbitant amount of taxpayers’ money on cultural policy. We therefore think that the Commission’s proposal for a total overall budget of EUR 400 million over the five years is both realistic and appropriate.It is similarly with certain reservations that we shall be voting tomorrow in favour of the proposals to set up a European Guarantee Fund and to broaden the financing options through cooperation with the European Investment Bank. If we are still voting in favour of the proposals, it is because they do not automatically mean more expense for European taxpayers. Unlike previous media programmes, the MEDIA Plus programme also involves the radio industry and, because we really cannot find any good, sensible reason for this, we have a reservation regarding this area, too. The media programmes were previously administered by the Commission in cooperation with the Media Committee as the advisory committee. The rapporteur wishes to change the status of the Media Committee from that of an advisory to that of a competent body, but this is something for which we have never obtained a really good explanation. I fear that this change will make it still a little more difficult to administer the MEDIA Plus programme, so it is also with a reservation that we shall be voting in favour of the proposals tomorrow. In spite of all these reservations, I think we have an extremely good program before us to enable us to strengthen the European film industry. We should very much like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Hieronymi, for the impressive work she has done.
Mr President, I certainly agree with Mr Bowe's final summary. Although the common position places firm controls on permitted emissions from waste incinerators, I know that whenever proposals to build such an incinerator are made in my country, people rise in protest, they distrust the operator's claims and I have a degree of sympathy with them. So I and many of my colleagues will be backing most of Mr Blokland's amendments because we want the highest possible standards. I have no problem at all if these prove technically difficult to achieve – no problem, because Britain has a shameful record of having the lowest household waste recycling in Europe and great room for improvement. Many of us believe that any government in our country will encourage the construction of waste incinerators as an alternative to encouraging the alternatives. It would be a case of 'throw it on the furnace' and putting it out of sight and out of mind which to my mind is a false approach. We have to concentrate on reducing waste, recycling what is left and leaving incinerators as a last resort.
Mr President, Secretary of State Colin Powell and President George Bush are both in Europe this week: Colin Powell to meet with EU Foreign Ministers and President Bush on a state visit to Britain. I hope that the Foreign Ministers and Prime Minister Blair will impress on their guests the need for transatlantic understanding to flow both ways.Europeans are rightly alarmed at the unilateralist policies of the US administration, its readiness to contemplate pre-emptive strikes and its refusal to internationalise the occupation of Iraq. Europeans are deeply unhappy at the prospect of military commissions imposing the death penalty or unlimited detention for the Guantanamo Bay detainees, and at the way the US is trying to sabotage the International Criminal Court. These are some of the reasons for the demonstrations against President Bush. They must be peaceful protests, and as such I personally intend to join them.I have just returned from Washington as an ad hoc member of the US delegation. Our hosts were gracious and hospitable, we had useful discussions and we have a huge amount in common. However, as well as us understanding their position, the Americans need to understand our objections, and our Foreign Ministers and Prime Minister must convey these objections this week.
Mr President, one cannot be truly surprised at the slow progress of the opening of this IGC phase. One must simply trust that, as the prime ministers have had more time to reflect upon the outcome of the Convention and upon the poorer quality of their own proposals, they will be drawn closer to accepting the outcome of the Convention and selling it on to their publics.One issue that concerns me especially is the absence of a clear schedule for consideration of Part III. The IGC is surely a wonderful chance for us to refresh and modernise the policy chapters, some of which, like the CAP, are 50 years old. If Part III cannot be properly reformed, the IGC must, at least in Part IV, seek to soften the future revision procedures for Part III.
Mr President, I admire Mr Deva's courage for tackling this subject. I have been working in developing countries for some twenty years myself, and I have to admit in all honesty that I have yet to discover how exactly one goes about developing a country. What works in one country does not in another. That is my conclusion in general.Mr Deva himself refers to eastern Asia, which has experienced a tremendous economic upturn. What strikes me is that this development has taken place without any major development aid, and that this took place when most markets in the world were still closed. How is this possible, and why does this not work elsewhere? As Mr Fernández Martín has already pointed out, the report, in my view, does not sufficiently highlight the fact that sound development requires sound government, and certainly not a corrupt government. Unfortunately, I come across these far too often in most countries.My group has tabled a few amendments at second reading. These amendments pertain to the following points. Firstly, we feel it is exaggerated to ban all exports of insecticides that are banned in Europe. Locust plagues in Africa can only be treated with pesticides that are banned in Europe, unless something new has come on the market in the last year, of which I am not aware. This is how it has always been.It is also exaggerated, in our view, to prescribe the same food safety requirements in Europe as in the developing countries. Needless to say, we will not be exporting any meat that is contaminated with dioxin or BSE. But food is in short supply and – as we say in Dutch – hunger is the best sauce. We will therefore need to make the necessary adjustments. I do want to confirm that our group is completely behind the Doha Declaration, and I am pleased that the Commission has reiterated this.Regrettably, the resolution does not mention the importance of a good price for agricultural products. As far as trade is concerned, I do not know whether Mr Deva has read the article in The Economist a few weeks ago, which clearly stated that the trade barriers among the developing countries are much higher than those with the rich countries. He partly refers to this in the resolution, but this should, to my mind, be emphasised.It would be perfect if we could blame the use of guns and pistols on those who manufacture them, but it seems a little idealistic to me. We regret that none of the amendments tabled by our group were adopted because there happen to be new rules. This is one of the reasons why my group will largely be abstaining from the vote on this resolution.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, expenditure for research accounts for nearly two thirds of the budget for internal policy. Consequently, the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy has requested the Court of Auditors to carry out a thorough investigation into the legality and lawfulness of payments in research as a matter of high priority. The Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy regrets the inaccuracies in one third of payments.The European Commission has paid over the odds most of the time because the beneficiaries had failed to declare non-eligible costs. Inadequate inspection by the offices of the Commission and the lack of contractually determined penalties for excessive declarations have also led to deliberate over-invoicing in nearly two-thirds of the payments. What does the Commissioner intend to do about this? Has the Commission ever taken legal action? Or does it intend to? I would like to have these questions answered.The success and usefulness of the research programmes are beyond dispute. But effective implementation requires better management and coordination, as well as inspections carried out by various Directorates-General.According to the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, it is essential that the tasks pertaining to financial management be carried out by officials who are required to render full account of their tasks to the institution. If money from Brussels is spent, then the responsibility should lie with Brussels and not with external service providers. We are prepared to grant discharge under these conditions.
Mr President, it is only natural that the issue of the fight against terrorism should be given a certain amount of attention in Ghent. The European Union has acted with impressive unity and decisiveness. We can look forward to a long-term battle on several fronts, including the political and the legal fronts, with a sensitive balance regarding respect for legal rights. In terms of the long view politically and economically, we may also be able to establish a better legal system with a stronger UN.It is gratifying that the US has realised the importance of the UN and is paying its debts to that organisation. Perhaps the EU can also get the US to ratify the protocol on the International Criminal Court. Of course, we must also work in the long term to achieve peace and democracy throughout the Middle East.In Ghent, enlargement will also be discussed. The Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party believes it is vital that each country be assessed on its own merits and that the principle of differentiation be genuinely upheld. That is a message I should like to send to the presidency.Finally, when it comes to the Convention, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for the concrete explanations. However, there is still a certain amount of concern in this area. The Convention is not a debating club for talking in rather general terms about various alternatives regarding the future of Europe. The Convention is not an alibi for the Council, but a serious and democratic partner in this discussion. Regardless of its composition – I hope that the candidate countries will be given a strong role to play in this context – the Convention will contain a large number of hard-working parliamentarians who need to know that the work that is put in is taken very seriously.
Madam President, Commissioner, I should like very much to thank the two rapporteurs, Mrs Villiers and Mr Skinner for their extraordinary work and for their energy and persistence during the negotiations with the Council. I would also thank Commissioner Bolkestein for these two important parts of the financial services action plan.We can now create a common financial market within the EU. That is incredibly important and, just as Mr Katiforis says, it provides the opportunity for economic growth, continued competition and more job opportunities in line with the Lisbon process, which is proving far too slow. If we are to be able to achieve our objectives, it is important for investors and consumers to be able to rely upon the financial markets and their players. People have lost confidence in them because there have, unfortunately, been many scandals in recent years. We must therefore create credible regulations that are neither too ponderous and bureaucratic nor, however, too lightweight.Where the directive on investment services and regulated markets is concerned, the rapporteur has done some exceptional work. I think that Mrs Villiers has shown a special ability to achieve reasonable and understandable compromises. I should like to say that she has been a very good European. It is the view of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party that the committee’s amendments do a good job of balancing the requirements of investor choice and investor protection, as well as creating rules for soundly operating financial markets within the EU.I recognise that Mr Huhne and I might have gone further, but we can live with the compromises. They provide the opportunity for continued competition between different trade centres. The amendments also mean the disappearance of what are termed the concentration rules.Finally, a few words about Mr Skinner’s report. I myself have had difficulty with the committee’s wanting to delete the Commission’s proposals concerning mandatory quarterly reporting. Those countries that have introduced such reporting think that it operates well. That is also the view of the Stockholm stock exchange. One market player I talked with considered that those who could not account for their companies’ results and give their views on their companies’ futures each quarter had no place on the stock exchange. Now, there is a sensible compromise which, at a pinch, can be lived with: half-yearly reporting with a possible review of the directive within five years.
You are right to call these political games. If the people objecting now really cared about racism, they would have come to the committee meetings and put down amendments.(Applause)On Amendment No 16
We have chosen to abstain in the vote on Amendment 4 to the Katiforis report on the EU Economy (1999).Our basic attitude is that competition between different national tax systems is not always a bad thing and that the Member States should, as far as possible, retain their right of decision making in this area. At national level, we are exceptionally keen that taxes on business and labour should be reduced towards the levels which prevail in our competitors’ countries, but an issue such as that should be decided by the Swedish Parliament and not by the European Parliament. Through a situation in which different countries seek different solutions concerning tax and welfare policy, the opportunity is provided to adapt policy to the characteristic features of the individual nations and to test out different forms of social security systems. Tax harmonisation at European level should only take place in exceptional cases, for example in the cases of certain environmental taxes and taxes on capital.Even if we agree that a certain degree of tax harmonisation is necessary if the internal market is to function properly, Amendment No 4 is altogether too far-reaching and undifferentiated when it comes to this issue.- Joint resolution on the shipwreck of the Erika (RC B5-0181/2000)
Mr President, is it really not naïve to think that this directive is the panacea for the adverse consequences of smoking? Does the European Commission really believe that a complete ban on tobacco advertising is going to stop people smoking?This is wishful thinking as far as I am concerned. I also take the view that people must have the freedom to find out about products as long as they are not prohibited products. I also think that there are better ways of tackling this problem, for example by drafting European guidelines that lay down standards for tobacco goods.Finally, I should like to draw your attention to the fact that what we have here is a contradiction in se. We are going to ban tobacco advertising, but each year millions in European subsidies go to tobacco growers. Make of that what you will.
The Commissioner is right in saying that the decision makers should ideally understand what they are talking about. That is something on which we completely agree. I am also pleased that you indicated the timetable for publication of the standard. If, however, we look at developments in Europe and at the almost daily contributions to Finnish newspapers too, there is a prevailing uncertainty – even in Finland, as one of the countries to have signed a memorandum of understanding – as to whether the same standard will be used by cable, satellite and terrestrial operators.The question, therefore, is: Does the Commissioner think that 2004 is adequate as a deadline? In fact, we are in something of a ‘chicken and egg’ situation where developments within digital TV are concerned. May I ask the Commissioner if the issue of digital TV is in some way to be touched upon again before Seville?
Mr President, I just wish to say that I was one of the people who tried to take the flight.I have always supported Strasbourg and have never voted against sitting here. However, I have decided that I really cannot come to Strasbourg any longer. None of us should be coming here. If Air France cannot get its act together and get Members of the European Parliament to Strasbourg, then we have to decide for ourselves that we meet in Brussels. It is not anti-French: it is anti-Air France. I am asking Air France to get its act together and the President of Parliament again to appeal to Air France, to appeal to the President of France, and say that, unless something is done, every single Member of the European Parliament will be against meeting in Strasbourg. It is just not acceptable to spend at least 12 hours travelling here and miss a whole day's work.(Loud applause)
Mr President, I would also like to join in the congratulations to Mr Désir, the rapporteur. This report strikes us as an excellent piece of forward-thinking, a blueprint for the WTO of tomorrow. It comprehensively rejects those who claim that the WTO is beyond redemption; that it cannot be reformed; that it is inherently biased against the poor or the dispossessed; and that it is just an agent for the rule of the jungle, rather than the rule of law.It also rejects the contrary view: the idea that free trade should prevail at all costs; that the WTO should be an agent for the dismantling of outstanding trade barriers, and should do so to the exclusion of all other political and public policy considerations. Instead, it represents almost a synthesis of those two views, because it shows how and when and why the WTO should, and must, be reformed. It shows how the WTO must become more transparent and legitimate.I should add that all the emphasis that we, as Europeans, place on the need for increased legitimacy and transparency in the WTO will come to nothing if we do not reform the way in which we conduct our own trade policy in the European Union. I was delighted to hear the presidency today say that it has supported in the past, and will support in the future, Parliament's demands for more transparent and legitimate trade policy-making in the European Council and the European Union.The report also – and this is perhaps its greatest contribution to the debate – shows the way in which the WTO has to be placed increasingly in a context of other public policy priorities and other multilateral organisations and agreements. It cannot rely on a role as primus inter pares on the international scene. Instead it should learn to interact with other priorities and other multilateral agreements. Our role is, therefore, to flank the WTO with other supporting agreements in other fields, notably the environmental field.
Mr President, I wanted to speak about the polemics between the World Jewish Congress and the Commission of the European Union last week. My aim is not to reinforce those polemics but to point out that they had their origin in a report, which apparently has not yet been distributed by the European institutions, on a matter that is unfortunately only too real. That is the revival of anti-Semitism in a number of countries, France in particular, where Jewish children, because they are Jews, are harassed and persecuted every day by Arabs perniciously applying to them what is happening in the Middle East conflict.Mr President, I would like you to intervene to get this report distributed so that the seminars planned on this question can actually be arranged, and quickly, and the European Union can, in accordance with its powers, be true to the commitments it has given, in particular through our Parliament.
Mr President, I should like to thank Mrs Fourtou, all the shadow rapporteurs, and also the Commission and the Council, for the structured, constructive cooperation that we have enjoyed over the past three months because, to my mind, the way in which a compromise has been achieved on this Directive is exceptional. The Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market took a rather different view, but, ultimately, I think that this compromise is a start, and indeed I hope that it is adopted.We finally have recognition of intellectual property rights throughout Europe. Although there were already various directives and laws in existence, for example regarding copyright, e-commerce, and software, there was no discussion – or at least insufficient – of enforcement, and as a result we in Europe find ourselves with a hotchpotch. In that regard, it is good that we now have a kind of umbrella legislation for harmonised implementation, throughout the EU, of all the directives already in existence in the field of intellectual property rights.As many have now said, counterfeiting and piracy within Europe are growing hand over fist. We are seeing criminal organisations switching from drug trafficking to counterfeit goods because the chance of being caught is minimal and there is just as much money in it, if not more. I think that we must call a halt to this. I think that we need a harmonised approach, not only because criminal organisations are earning money illegally from these goods, but also in order to protect our economy, to achieve the Lisbon objectives, and ultimately, in particular, to protect consumers.Why so? We are not just talking about pirated CDs, as some people think, but about a broad spectrum of products that are being counterfeited. I shall take toys as an example. I have seen toys that contain cadmium. Under the Directive on cadmium, this substance is prohibited in toys manufactured in Europe, but counterfeit products can still contain it, as they are illegally imported. Medicinal products are another example. There are examples of painkillers that contain talcum powder, and I think that this is unacceptable. Much money is to be made from it but, in my opinion, consumers must be protected. Even aircraft parts are being counterfeited, because there are large profits to be made from this. It is a good thing that something is being done to put an end to this.I was the one who, at the Green Paper stage, suggested including a reference to criminal law. The reason for this is that we would not buy a stolen bicycle, because it has been stolen – our principles would not allow it – but we would like a counterfeit Breitling watch or other counterfeit product, because it is cheap. If this is included in criminal law, and possession of a somewhat dearer counterfeit product becomes a punishable offence, there will no longer be a market for this, and there will no longer be an incentive for organisations to produce counterfeit goods.It is a shame that certain strict rules have not been included, as my colleague Mr Berenguer Fuster has already remarked, but I nevertheless welcome the compromise that has been reached. A large number of ambiguities that lobbyists have been using up to now as arguments for voting against it have been removed from the proposal. It is my opinion that this proposal is the beginning of the end of counterfeiting, and I hope that this will develop into a fully-fledged directive with fully-fledged means of monitoring compliance with it.
Mr President, the results of drug therapy against AIDS partly depend on the question whether those drugs are administered in the correct way, at the correct time, in the correct dosage and under expert supervision. In this, preconditions, such as a sound local infrastructure and stability play a crucial role in the approach to health care. Drugs have an optimum effect if continuity in dispensing and expert supervision in treatment are guaranteed. Otherwise there is a real risk of incorrect or inadequate treatment. The combating of AIDS requires the structural improvement of local health care conditions and support from the World Health Organisation, and the work of the European Union directed to that end is therefore of the greatest importance. Only these factors will guarantee long-term development. In the short term many people are already dying, and for that reason a priority choice for affordable drugs now is advisable, as is rightly argued in the resolution.This resolution refers to a greatly impoverished Africa. The Caribbean region and South East Asia, where the problems are also considerable, must not be forgotten in this discussion.
Madam President, at the last part-session in Brussels you very kindly said that you would write to the Greek authorities about the 12 British and two Dutch plane spotters who were arrested. I was wondering whether you have had any reply to that letter. My constituent Wayne Groves is still in prison after nearly five weeks with no charge and no trial. I believe it is against the European Convention on Human Rights. I should like to know whether there is anything further you can do on their behalf and whether you have had that reply.
Mr President, Commissioner, we remain convinced that the euro is a good thing. The euro is not a goal in itself, but a means to serve the European citizen, a strong economy, employment and the international status of the European Union. It is a means to promote more stability, more transparency, more clarity, more convenience of payment, more saving options and better investment opportunities.I will not repeat what the honourable rapporteur has already stated as to how we need to tackle the changeover of national currency units to euros in practical terms, but I would like to make two observations regarding her report.Firstly, the euro probably has only one drawback, namely the inevitable transitional period; that is to say, all the adjustments required to fully integrate the national currency units into the new tender. If we wish to limit the damage, then it is indeed important to keep the period of dual currency circulation to a minimum. If it is based on sound framework measures, there is no need for initial hesitation before taking the final and definitive step towards the euro. I therefore back the technical measures proposed by the rapporteur. I would congratulate her on the level of clarity displayed.Secondly, we are responsible for keeping the attention given to, and interest in, the euro alive. The present situation is not conducive in this respect. The introduction of the euro on 1 January this year enjoyed a great deal of attention, even a certain euphoria, but it all went quiet after that for the single currency. The euro is still too far removed from the European citizen. It is still a while before 2002, when the euro will be introduced as actual currency. This is too long according to public opinion. The appetite has gone. Moreover, this interim phase creates far too many insecurities.In short, we need to be able to maintain our belief in and enthusiasm for the euro during the warming-up stage as well, although ensuring at the same time that people do not lose interest before the euro actually takes off. After all, the euro needs to remain a success and we need to make every effort to achieve this.
The Liberal Democrat delegation did not vote with the rest of the  Group on the Schmidt report. We voted against Amendments Nos 1 to 13 and the proposal, as we wished the proposal in its current form to be withdrawn. Our reason for doing so is that we believe VAT on postal services, especially in respect of securing a universal service for packages below two kilogrammes, is a matter best left to national governments under the principle of subsidiarity. However, we remain open to considering future proposals aimed at ensuring greater competition.
Mr President, this is a period when we confirm the end to historic divisions. Firstly I would like to say a word about Cyprus and urge a positive response from the Turkish Cypriot authorities to the Annan plan. I realise that Mr Denktash is sadly still very unwell, but it must be possible to signal agreement on this plan as the basis for negotiation. I know the majority of Turkish Cypriots want that positive response.Secondly, I urge support for Amendment No 24 to the report, tabled by the  Group. This calls for the transformation of the accession monitoring process into a system of mutual peer review applicable to all Member States, old and new. This would ensure respect for democratic accountability, integrity of public administration, non-discrimination, civil liberties and the rule of law.We need to invest money, time and effort in our systems of democracy and justice throughout the European Union. The existing 15 Member States are certainly not perfect and we need to invest at least as much as we do in our agriculture. We spend a lot of time talking about agriculture and structural funds. We need to spend at least as much time talking about the underpinnings of democracy and justice in all our Member States, through mutually constructive evaluation.
Mr President, Commissioner, I would first of all like to thank the rapporteur for the great care he has taken over this report. Two major factors can be identified with regard to the liberalisation process of the energy market. First of all, the liberalisation process does not proceed at the same pace in all the Member States and secondly, there is also a difference in timing within the respective Member States. Moreover, it is also worth emphasising that the way energy markets are opened up depends greatly on the geographic location of the Member State in question. For the reasons set out above, it would be preferable to adopt a pragmatic rather than a theoretical approach. The pragmatic approach is also the way forward if we want to achieve Member-State-specific liberalisation, for, in our opinion, we should not speed up the directive’s implementation but rather carry it out gradually.Against this background, it is important for the amendment tabled by our group to be approved within the Commission. This aims to force Member States to set up independent regulatory bodies that will be authorised to encourage full competition. The same amendment also aims to promote the interests of the consumers within the liberalised energy market by guaranteeing universal service provision.Finally, I would like to emphasise that our proposal on laying down a detailed schedule, in the course of which clearly defined goals would need to be accomplished, is important if we are eventually to achieve gradual, yet full, liberalisation of the energy market. Acceptance of this proposal within the plenary will put a stop to unfair competition which is currently affecting the electricity market and which is caused by liberalisation being applied in different ways within the Member States.
Mr President, as is evident from the Commission proposal and Mr Sjöstedt's report, what matters more than anything is for the Cartagena Protocol to be transposed into European legislation and for us to be able to enforce it.Biosafety and biological diversity are crucial and it is therefore essential that we should ensure that the Protocol becomes EU law. Do we, however, assume that it is sound as it stands, or would we like to use this opportunity to make an exception and be more rigorous than the Protocol?If it is the intention to implement the Protocol, that is what we should do, and it is important, in my view, for the sake of scientific research in the EU, not to close off the EU unnecessarily in one way or another from the rest of the world or make the work unnecessarily more difficult than in the rest of the world.Genetic engineering is a ground-breaking discipline and strikes me as very useful. As with all technologies, of course, the question is how it is employed. In addition, I believe that trade is necessary and boundaries need to be crossed so as to allow scientists to do their research. This is quite simply how science works, and as far as I can see, science hinders this research as little as possible. We must do what is needed and leave out what is not needed. Accordingly, I am of the opinion that we should implement the Protocol and that the report contains a few elements which are not conducive to this process.Further to discussions on the GMO reports which were held a couple of weeks, or even months, ago, I have already pointed out that I personally have a problem with traceable and non-traceable products, in other words, things which can, and cannot, be discovered. We have no intention of re-entering the debate, as it has already been held, but my group will definitely be endorsing Amendments Nos 51 and 50. This topic has been discussed among the Christian-Democrats. When restricted use and transit are at issue, the Protocol provides for an exception. I can therefore not see why we cannot do the same.Secondly, if the receiving country has already admitted GMOs, it is beyond me why we should re-apply for the same product to be imported and duplicate all the paperwork. These are unnecessary restrictions, in my view. It is, of course, true – and this is something I welcome – that we should provide the developing countries with as much information as possible, allowing them to be able to reach a sound verdict.What matters most is that we transpose the Protocol into EU legislation, but just as important is for the European Union not to become an island where little or no research may, or can, be carried out in this technology, which could be very useful in my opinion, both to us and to the people in the developing countries.
Mr President, I would first like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Redondo Jiménez, for this report and her excellent display of cooperation as chair of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development this autumn.A viable system for statistics is an important basis for making good decisions. Statistics have to be comprehensive, reliable and consistent. The report quite clearly explains the legal basis of statistics, especially in Amendments Nos 2 and 3, which specify the Community’s share of the advance. Politically, the most important message is contained in Amendments Nos 4 and 5, which urges the practice of cross-tabulating subsidies received according to, inter alia, farm surface area. This information will be especially important when we consider the social side of agricultural subsidies. It would be difficult to support a subsidy scheme that channelled most of the aid to the large farms in the best agricultural regions. We have no data on this, but have to be content with the rumours that 80% of aid would go to 20% of farmers.Amendment No 1 emphasised the importance of statistics in connection with enlargement towards the east. This is a very important consideration that still means much work for the EU and the applicant countries. The problems over statistics for the applicant countries will not be resolved through this report. Problems have continued since the land register began to function. Embarking on eastward enlargement without any information on its effect on the budget would be political suicide. It does not help much, though, if our current data on expenditure is based on mistaken or unreliable data.The most important aspect of statistical data on the European farmer is the reference yield. When Finland became a Member, as a result of poor yield in previous years, we had to be satisfied with a figure that did not reflect the truth in normal years. These reference yields should be raised to a realistic level as soon as possible, or we should start to reconsider the whole basis of their use and the idea of a drop in the price of grain as compensation for hectarage aid. We cannot undertake to subsidise producers in regions of highest yield in Europe for years and years on account of price reductions that have sometimes taken place in the past. The most obvious answer would be to harmonise hectarage aid as closely as possible within the whole territory of the EU. Mr President, the  group supports this report.
Mr President, I would very much like to bring to your attention the problems we are facing in Brussels, in particular those arising between the Members’ chauffeurs and the security service. We are currently facing enormous problems in this regard, which are causing a great deal of delay. The Members have to wait in a basement full of exhaust fumes, which delays them and which does not do their health much good either. Further to this, I would also like to bring to your notice the matter of the drop-off point next to this Parliament, since I can envisage problems, especially in winter, when one has to walk the 150 metres across the courtyard. Perhaps it would be possible for the point to be set up on the other side, near the entrance.
Mr President, I withdraw the question I was going to ask because it has already been put by Mr Hatzidakis and Mr Jarzembowski. I thank the Commissioner for her communication but I would like her to say what she means by ‘unfair competition’ because I did not fully understand this point.
Mr President, thank you, Commissioner, for the information. Allow me to say that, after this, I was placed rather in the same situation as when one reads the news, for example in one’s own country, that a hospital which has just been renovated at a cost of millions is to be closed down. You mentioned that EUR 200 million had been invested in the Phare partnership to improve safety. I believe that, where this is concerned, we need an honest appraisal to be carried out. What have we done previously? What has proved to be unnecessary now in the light of the perhaps rather stricter line Europe has adopted in the membership negotiations? I think we may have behaved a little stupidly here.I also think that uncertainty in the matter of what we have had a legal basis for doing has shown that we in the Community could do with rather more in the way of conditions where energy supplies are concerned, something we shall be discussing over the next few days when it comes to the Intergovernmental Conference. Where the Slovakian nuclear power plant, Bohunice, is concerned, it is obvious that we need more information about what the real situation is there in the matter of safety. Unfortunately, we have the type of situation in which none of us knows anything about this; we do not have access to the same information as the Commission. Where Ignalina is concerned, I want to say that I do not think that the information we have obtained is really satisfactory in the light of, for example, the so-called WENRA report where it is stated that we do not have any certain knowledge about safety in so-called reactor shutdown systems.
Mr President, I would like to thank the Commission for its extremely strong and clear statement on the unfortunate Zana case. During the recent Joint Parliamentary Committee meeting in Turkey, we brought up the issue of the Leyla Zana trial, as we always do. Justice Minister Cicek promised us that in the next package of constitutional reforms, which I think is to be published this week, the State Security Courts would be scrapped. This is, of course, first-class news because these courts do not contribute to justice; they do not contribute to security. The Turkish Government fully appreciates the political importance of the Zana case for the European Parliament.As a strong Turkophile, let me be quite clear that, if Leyla Zana and her colleagues are not released soon, it will be impossible for Turkey's closest friends to argue that accession negotiations should be opened from December. No country can seriously contemplate European membership with nearly six thousand prisoners of conscience, no matter how controversial those people prove to be.
Madam President, the labelling of food products containing genetically modified organisms is, of course, to be welcomed, because consumers can make up their own minds. Whether or not these consumers are right in having doubts about GMOs, the customer is ultimately always right.Legislation on labelling, however, to my mind, misses the mark on at least two fundamental counts. First of all, the consumer does not get what he wants. A consumer who wants GMO-free products does not want less than 0.9% or 0.5% GMOs in them. No, he does not want any GMOs at all. A non-GMO label would therefore have been much better. It is unfortunate that this can no longer be on the agenda, as we rejected it at first reading. Moreover, a label of that kind would have made superfluous the whole debate we are now having about co-existence.The second problem is that this is about political labelling which goes much further than information of potential relevance to public health. As far as I am concerned, paper traceability instead of factual traceability is a mistake. It is asking for fraud, and so the next food scandal is already in the making.Finally, it is to be hoped that this proposal will lead to a lifting of the GMO moratorium. This is what matters most; it means that Europe’s lack of knowledge compared to the United States is only growing. I should therefore like to ask the same question which Mrs Jackson raised a moment ago, namely whether this proposal will lead to the moratorium actually being lifted, because this is still shrouded in uncertainty.
Mr President, the good news is that the ICC has been successfully established with 139 countries having signed up and the president, prosecutor and judges appointed. It will prosecute the worst kind of crimes, such as genocide, mass slaughter, widespread rape and ethnic cleansing. It will help make the world a safer place. The European Union must live up to its leadership in establishing the Court by ensuring that all Member States fulfil their funding and legal obligations.The United States' opposition to the Court is totally irrational. There are ample checks and safeguards to prevent politically motivated prosecutions. It is absurd to claim that US peacekeepers would run the gauntlet of anti-American prejudice.US domestic political ideology is in conflict with American security interests. Surely an international court which signals that the international community will not allow gross breaches of law to go unpunished coincides with the objectives of the United States global security doctrine.We may not be able to stop the US from shooting itself in the foot, but we ought to be able to stop it shooting the rest of us in the foot. It is deploying the most outrageous bullying tactics to get small countries to sign bilateral immunity agreements. Six of the seven EU accession states which are candidates to NATO have not obtained a waiver and have had military aid cut off.It is alarming to see the Bush Administration pursuing its anti-ICC campaign to such lengths as to cut off military assistance to its allies in the war against terrorism. Indeed, most ICC member states are democracies with relatively strong commitment to the rule of law, so the aid cut-offs represent a sanction targeting states that abide by democratic values. That is extremely perverse.The Balkan states are in a very vulnerable position. Croatia and Bulgaria have refused to sign. Romania, Albania and Bosnia have granted immunity and Macedonia, too, I understand. It is no good just saying we regret that they do not live up to EU criteria. We have to both sanction and protect these accession and aspirant states. This is the kind of exercise which, if the EU cannot hang together, with its candidate and aspirant states, makes people despair of a common foreign and security policy. We should be able to do more and I hope we will be able to do so.
Commissioner, I am grateful for your assurance that this is the first step of the procedure for infringement proceedings. I have had here today beef farmers from my constituency. Those farmers have had to wait more than 14 weeks since 1 August and still their beef is not back on the market in France. They have now been told that they have to wait a further 14 days until we get the French position.May I put it to you straight. Do you not already know what the French position is? Has the time not come for the Commission to throw the book at the delinquent Member State? Does not anything else make the Commission look limp and lily-livered and undermine public confidence in the European Union?Will you make it clear please at your press conference that the full force of the law will be used against the delinquent Member State unless this ban is lifted.
Mr President, I, too, wish to thank Mrs Ghilardotti for the sound and skilful work she has done on this report. I also wish, in particular, to thank her for her understanding of the minority views that may be adopted by a Danish MEP in this situation, for we have a special system of consultation and cooperation in the labour market which creates problems for us from time to time. We all agree, of course, that information and consultation and a good social dialogue are important. It has become a part of modern management to attach importance to these things, to involve employees and to talk about learning organisations, so enabling companies to develop better.I believe it is important that, when we talk about these matters, we do not only view information and consultation as part and parcel of restructuring and the reduction of the labour force, but as also being a part of day-to-day work in which it takes a long time to build up mutual confidence and that reciprocal dialogue that can be of value both to employees and companies in a crisis situation and which may also perhaps play a part in preventing crises from breaking out within companies. We have had a long period in which it was difficult getting everyone to understand the need for revising this directive, and revision has been blocked by a majority of the Council. Denmark has been a part of that blocking majority, not because we are nervous about having rules on information and consultation – we have in actual fact had stringent rules on these matters from as far back as 1960 – but because we are afraid that common rules might create problems for the system we think works well in practice. It would, of course, be an irony of fate if common rules were to be destructive in an area in which matters are operating well.Flexibility is a key word when it comes to drawing up the common rules, but there must not of course be so much flexibility that the required information and consultation does not occur in those places in which these things have not been emphasised. I must say, therefore, that, on the whole, my group is able to support Mrs Ghilardotti’s proposals. We have some problems where the sanctions are concerned, and I must say that the Council’s solution is an extremely fine balance that it is very difficult not to upset. There is therefore a single point in regard to which we cannot completely endorse the strict rules indicated in Mrs Ghilardotti’s report but in regard to which we prefer to endorse the Council’s solution. On the other hand, I want to say, on the subject of interim arrangements, that it is a question of putting these in place. Let us now get these matters implemented and not just continue to talk about them. Information and consultation are not a punishment for business. On the contrary, they are things that promote good business and competitiveness.
Mr President, Commissioner, we all know that, in a larger EU, the ECB must be reformed, but the proposal presented by the ECB has not been sufficiently worked out. It has also been severely criticised.Mr Friedrich’s report is along the right lines but, in common with others in Parliament, I wonder why there is all this hurry. We should stop and reflect and produce a securely founded proposal for the next intergovernmental conference. It is a requirement of democracy that voting rules be fairly simple and comprehensible. Ordinary people too must in fact be able to understand them and how they work. The principle should be one of ‘one member, one vote’.As Mr Huhne pointed out, the important requirement of efficiency can be met in an enlarged EU. Commissioner, we must prevent an unduly divided Europe. A division into A, B and even C teams is not acceptable. The ECB must demonstrate greater openness, with public reporting of discussions and votes. That is a requirement that cannot be abandoned. Finally, we must in fact also strengthen Parliament’s role.
Mr President, I would first like to congratulate Mr Savary on his drafting of such excellent reports. This is an important topic, but also an extremely complicated one. Mr Savary has taken good account of the views of others. My group supports improvement of the competitiveness of railways and liberalisation of competition. The first stage is to create the conditions for uninterrupted movement of trains over the entire region of the European Union. Technical Specifications for Interoperability (TSIs) and common standards are a sine qua non for the development of railway interoperability.The rapporteur has quite rightly adopted a gradual approach. Technical solutions can vary a great deal. The competitiveness of railways should not be undermined by the imposition of additional economic burdens, even though common standards will lower costs in the longer term. Existing differences between national railway systems will make necessary some exceptions in the harmonisation of railway systems, so that no Member State shall have to face inordinate difficulties and so that current railway transport will not be jeopardised. This report outlines a course of action by which these exceptions can be accepted without jeopardising the principal objective.There is one further matter which would require fine tuning; this was outlined in Amendment No 35 by my Group. It applies to Finland in particular, but some of the applicant countries will be faced with the same problem in connection with enlargement of the Union. The matter referred to concerns Russian freight wagons, where technical solutions are applied which differ from those of the Member States, inter alia in the area of couplings and brakes. They are not necessarily inferior, but different. Russia is hardly about to change its standards in order to comply with the requirements of the Union. For Finland, this is an exceptionally major issue. Due to historical reasons, the track gauge in Finland and Russia is the same, but it is different from that in Europe in general. Russian wagons account for approximately 40 % – almost a half – of Finnish freight transport. The reason for this high percentage is that we do not want to take the risk of sending Finnish wagons to Russia, since experience shows that they are so very rarely returned. Russia, of course, is a country which leans heavily on rail transport, with a rolling stock which must equal that of the entire region of the EU put togetherIn the review concerning point 5 of Article 5, Mr Savary proposes that when considering special cases, particular attention should be paid to the rolling stock of third countries. This proposal is very good, but the solution remains half-finished, as far as Finland is concerned. It will lead to unnecessary and laborious inspections of Russian wagons and to massive bureaucracy. There is no certainty either that Russian wagons in all instances would be regarded as special cases. This is why we have tabled an amendment of Article 7, which simply aims at making it possible to use third country freight wagons for traffic, as long as they do not cross the border between two Member States. This is the addition referred to as point f in the Committee’s amendment. Implementation of this proposal would give assurance that rail traffic in Finland could continue without becoming drastically reduced.
Mr President, it is now one and a half years since we were able to congratulate the Commission on the Cotonou Agreement, and it is really somewhat disgraceful that there are still only three EU countries that have ratified the agreement. I realise that there are probably some that are on the way to doing so in the course of the spring, but it is still not too satisfactory. At least it is good that our approval is being put in place tomorrow, even if I agree with the rapporteur that it is only the beginning. However, I should like to congratulate the rapporteur on his report.A lot has undeniably happened in the world since the agreement was signed in June 2000, but that does not of course make it any the less important. I think it can be said that the fact that foreign policy is bound up with development policy has, since then, been heavily underlined, and I am also pleased that I am today speaking on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, for this shows the connection between foreign policy and development policy. In a speech in December 2001 in Berlin with the title, ‘From Afghanistan to Zimbabwe’, Commissioner Nielson made these words his own. Which form of policy comes first may be immaterial. However, 11 September made this connection and, in particular, the importance of foreign policy, abundantly clear. 11 September showed what can happen if we do not ensure development in all parts of the world. It is now our task to pursue such development. The same applies to our continuing work in Kosovo. In connection with Zimbabwe too, the link between foreign policy and development policy is clear, as too is the fact that, in spite of everything, the EU has succeeded in obtaining an agreement, which means that we can operate in Zimbabwe in the hope of achieving good results. I agree with the Commissioner, whose speech contained the concluding remarks – which I would certainly echo – to the effect that the C in CFP ‘...stands for common, not convenient and colonial’. I agree that we therefore still have work to do, as we also have here in Parliament.
Mr President, Commissioner, it seems as if I am forever subject to Murphy’s law where this report is concerned, because I myself was in Romania when we voted on it in the Committee.I want to thank Mr van Velzen for his work in introducing the debate during my absence. I think it is important that we remember how matters stood when the directive was adopted. It was believed on that occasion that it was conditional access which would present the worst bottleneck when it came to our obtaining open TV. That is perhaps not the case now, but it is other parts of television’s distribution network which will become bottlenecks or gatekeepers if we do not watch out.Not only must it be possible to use different types of technical apparatus in combination with one another, but different computer programs must also be required to understand each other. At the same time, consumers have a great need for easily accessible information and can reasonably demand that the market should also be predictable.I think that, where TV is concerned, we shall, in the future, have a situation where digital TV will be a part of ever more integrated electronic functions in the home. It is therefore important that we should have an API, an Applications Programme Interface, which can be used as part of this integrated environment. This is also crucial when it comes to the electronic program guides. It is these two factors which the forthcoming provisions should especially concentrate on.I would also draw my fellow MEPs’ attention to the fact that these electronic program guides will be important in, for example, enabling parents to protect young children from material they do not wish them to see.Neither the decoders’ operating systems nor the electronic program values are at present mutually compatible. The parliamentary committee shares the view, as did the Commission, that the markets and techniques within the field of digital television have been developed beyond the scope of the directive. The regulations in the special directive we are now discussing ought therefore to be revised and can usefully be incorporated into those clusters of proposed modifications to directives governing the communications sector which we can expect from the Commission in a few weeks’ time.The rapporteur’s conclusion is that open standards are now needed. We are now seeing the second and third generation of equipment for digital television. The work being done on creating that kind of open standard for home multi-media equipment is well advanced, and the European Telecommunications Standardisation Institute, ETSI, will hopefully adopt the MHP standard. There are good reasons for accepting that this standard will form a basis for the future. Nonetheless, we cannot exclude the possibility that political decisions concerning standards will be needed in the future if the market cannot reach an agreement.Digital TV is distributed in a number of different ways which are technically not quite the same. Like traditional TV, digital TV can be broadcast across terrestrial networks, by cable and via satellite. These distribution systems at present have different degrees of penetration, but satellite distribution is the dominant system. Tomorrow, distribution by cable may, however, gain ground. With distribution by cable, there is an inbuilt return channel which provides direct access to interactive services on the network. I believe that access to interactive services is the sine qua non of digital TV’s becoming one of the important gateways to the information society. The different distribution systems mean that digital TV can also become a particularly important way for sparsely populated areas to access the Internet.An end to analogue TV broadcasts and a total changeover to digital TV are important if we are to be able to exploit the limited resource of the radio spectrum in an effective way. No one has yet been able to define under which conditions analogue broadcasts can cease.Digitalisation means that there will be challenges, especially perhaps for public service broadcasters which cannot subsidise the extra equipment required in the same way that conventional broadcasters can. How are licence fees to be collected in countries which finance broadcasting in this way and have a free-to-air tradition?I would also point out that the rapporteur vigorously supports the ‘must carry’ principle, or obligation on the part of cable operators to broadcast certain channels, and believes that this must continue. On the other hand, we ought not to make such demands as would impede the development of the very interactive services in question. Nor ought we to jeopardise the will to invest in upgrading the network.Even public service companies which previously broadcast their programmes free of charge are now in the process of setting up boundaries and making it more difficult to broadcast across national borders. In the background are issues of copyright. The TV companies’ copyright organisations ought to make the most of new opportunities to give those who want to watch digital programmes the right also to do so beyond the borders of the broadcasting country. That is a goal which we are already committed to achieve by the Treaty and by the ‘Television Without Frontiers’ Directive.
Madam President, I too should like to congratulate Mr Oostlander, who managed to produce a report that was approved by both the advocates and the opponents of Turkish accession in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy. This is no mean feat and is due to the very reasonable and balanced line of argument he follows from beginning to end – well, almost from beginning to end, but more of that in a moment.I should like to say that Mrs Stenzel speaks with the voice of wisdom when she points out that we are not seeing the whole picture if we only assess Turkey’s progress but do not examine the state of readiness of the European Union, in its various fields of political activity, to receive Turkey, and this is no trifling matter.The point I should like to pick up, Mr Oostlander, is that of secularism. Paragraph 32 of your report seems to me to proceed from a slightly jaundiced view of the secularism which is perhaps the most valuable part of the legacy of Kemal Atatürk. The separation of church and state is not an archaic formula but a recipe for the future of our Union. The fact that the government of a country whose people are mainly Muslim is trying to put this separation into practice is, I believe, an asset for which Turkey deserves credit, not an obstacle to progress.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I am keen to do again what I did in committee, that is, to express my support for our rapporteur Mrs Malliori on this subject, which is, to say the least, a controversial subject that evokes passion. The approach deliberately chosen by the committee and by our rapporteur, that of focussing on providing, on a local scale, step-by-step programmes targeting persons addicted to hard drugs, seems to us to be the right one, the one most likely to yield tangible results at grass-roots level and to reverse the current, rather disturbing, tendency. Drug-related deaths are on the up, and that seems to be the case in most of the Member States.For all these reasons, thewelcomes the amendments that add value to this recommendation in terms of public health. Our governments must indeed give priority to high-risk environments. Streets, the penal system, nightclubs, raves, are all places where hard drugs circulate freely and without regard to the minimum standards of health and safety. We must of course prioritise action programmes on the street, in prisons and also in places of nocturnal entertainment where the simultaneous consumption of more than one drug is prevalent. As regards this latter practice of using drugs and alcohol at the same time, which is cutting swathes through young people in particular – and they are getting ever younger – it is imperative that, in parallel with one another, schemes for prevention, information, analysis of chemical substances and providing a rapid response in the event of illness or withdrawal, should be operated and made widely available. The 8000 citizens who are dying every year in the European Union, from overdoses, from adulterated products, or as a result of shared needles, deserve a full-frontal approach to risk reduction on the part of the European Union.Let me say now that I regret the fact that we have not, in this report, completely succeeded in focussing our attention on this specifically health-related aspect, at the risk of watering down our message and reverting to an ethical and generalised debate, which would again be futile and would attempt to set up prevention and suppression in opposition to each other. I wish to say that I go along with Mr Bowis' arguments and that I am unable to accept those put forward by Mrs Sandberg-Fries.My conclusion, Madam President, is that we need to set ourselves realistic targets if we are to be able to say, tomorrow at least, that the EU's new action plan on drugs has been a success.
Indeed, Mrs Damião’s report is warmly supported by the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party. There are two points I should like to make.The climate in the European Union, the business climate, and also ethics and environment. Despite being a key technology, biotechnology is still a poor relation in Europe and also in my own country the Netherlands. I therefore welcome the strategy of the Committee for biotechnology and life sciences, which is contributing to research and development in Europe. Not only for industry, but also with regard to health care and food safety. This does not, however, alter the fact that the committee has been overtaken by events. After all, did we not, in March 2000, adopt the Purvis report whose intention was to improve the business climate in Europe? Did we not also criticise the Member States over the moratorium on the import of genetically modified products? There is still much to be done in Europe in terms of access to launch capital and to patent rights to create a favourable climate. The patent directive for biotechnological inventions is a demonstrable improvement. This directive from 1998, however, has simply been ignored by the majority of Member States. It has only been implemented by four of the 15 Member States. What does the Commissioner intend to do about it?Another major obstacle to progress and application are the ethical and environmental concerns. It is of course entirely proper that we as legislators do not ignore these concerns of the consumer. The Commission’s action plan, however, already provides for the initiation of a social debate. It does not therefore seem necessary to me to strengthen this report with paragraphs that regulate communication with society in detail. We do not, after all, have to hold the consumer’s hand. The consumer is perfectly capable of making up his own mind if we provide the right information.
As a member of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, but also as a former government commissioner for administrative simplification in my own country, I can only welcome the unanimous approval, by our committee, of Mrs Jensen’s report.In effect, the introduction of a European Health Insurance Card, which will replace the current paper forms needed for health treatment in another Member State, constitutes a considerable advance for Europeans. I think that we should all be aware of this. The harmonisation of procedures will lead to greater well-being, it will avoid people being confronted by endless paperwork, but above all it will give real mobility to European citizens. This step is an excellent example of the efficacy that can result from a reorganisation of procedures. Thus the famous Form E111, so familiar to tourists and required for short-term stays, will be the first thing to be abolished.The European card will simplify the lives of our fellow citizens, without changing existing rights and obligations. This is something that we all insisted on. This practical and very visible act will increase our sense of belonging to the European Union, just as it will strengthen European citizenship. It is clear that we shall very quickly have to continue our efforts and broaden the scope of the card, so that it includes medical emergency data and information about the health of the holder.For now, let us welcome this new administrative culture which, without a doubt, will be appreciated by the citizens of Europe, who have all too often been disappointed by the slow and cumbersome nature of our procedures.
Mr President, I wish first of all to thank the rapporteur, Mr Garriga Polledo, for an excellent report. Next year’s budget will be a difficult one, with the accession of ten new Member States, bringing with them nine new official languages. This will be a very hard test for EU administration.The new Member States have to be included in the work of the EU as a whole. This means they also have to receive their rightful share of employees and officials to work in the EU’s different institutions. This is a massive recruitment and training exercise. The Commission’s request for 700 new posts is right, even if it is a huge number. At the same time, however, we have to guard against too much bureaucracy with regard to administration. The downward devolution of responsibility and power should continue, as should the clarification of personal accountability. Administration must move more in the direction of activity-based management, where what is most important is better productivity and cost-effectiveness.There should be special attention paid to improving internal security. This will mean, among other things, stepping up the fight against drugs and other international criminality, as well as illegal immigration. This will bring pressures for budget heading 3, ‘Internal Policies’, in particular.Regarding structural policy, we must once and for all be in a position to reduce the figure for outstanding commitments. Regarding the structure of the budget, we have to improve its degree of informativeness: it must be clearly evident what the costs and achievements of individual policy areas are. Members of Parliament must be able to see clearly what EU money has achieved or can achieve.
Mr President, Commissioner, the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party is very concerned about the evermore authoritarian developments in Russia, linked to the person of President Putin. The sudden dissolution of the government is further illustration of this.Democracy appears to be in retreat, instead of the reverse being the case, and the presidential election resembles more and more a farcical one-man show. The terrible acts of cruelty in Chechnya must cease, and the EU must act in such a way as to help bring about a solution as soon as possible. There are huge needs in the environmental area, and we regret the fact that Russia is unwilling to ratify the Kyoto Protocol.The EU needs to have a strategic partnership with Russia. We wish, are able and ought to play our part, but such a partnership is not unconditional and cannot be dictated by Moscow. In this area, the ball now lies largely in Putin’s court. I also wish to thank Mr Belder for a very constructive report, which we can without difficulty vote in favour of.
Mr President, Commissioner, firstly I would like to emphasise that any measure intended to promote road safety ought to be welcomed. That being the case, theintends to approve the Ferri report.Equally, we need to lay great emphasis on the fact that, looking to the future, the European Parliament is going to want to adopt a more comprehensive programme on road safety. We can no longer stand idly by when records show that every year 42,000 people are killed in road traffic accidents in Europe. “Road rage” is on the increase, which ought to make any policy maker aware that there is an urgent need for a number of measures to be drawn up and that these must be implemented in all Member States of the European Union with no concessions being made.In this connection, I would like to raise the idea of introducing a monthly traffic “barometer”. This traffic barometer would enable the competent authorities responsible for road safety in the European Union to conduct an evaluation of road safety in the Union on a monthly basis. In this way, the reasons for the lack of road safety could be investigated on a systematic basis and regular consultation would lead not only to action being taken but, most importantly of all, to policy makers becoming sensitive to the needs of road-users.Exchanging information and making road-users continuously aware of the enormous responsibility they carry when it comes to road safety will undoubtedly make a huge contribution to substantially reducing personal distress and the grief experienced by families.The Ferri report appeals to young people to be more conscious of road safety. No one doubts that young people must indeed be made aware of the dangers posed by road traffic. However, to my mind it is not just young people whom we need to direct this appeal at. In my view, all road-users, regardless of how old they are, need to be made continuously aware that only if they behave properly and courteously on the roads will it be possible to bring about a reduction in the tragically high number of road traffic victims.I was recently in the immediate vicinity when two drivers engaged in fisticuffs, as a result of which one of them died, and all because one was obstructing the other in traffic. These were two adults. When faced with dramas of this kind it makes me realise that we have an enormous problem before us. The Ferri report is a small step in the right direction. I would not wish my colleague Mr Ferri to take this to be a derogatory comment, I just mean to say that we still have a long way to go to reach the goal that we all have before us, notably to make our roads much safer places.
Mr President, Commissioner, as many speakers have stated here already, the latest budget monitoring figures also show that the implementation of the Structural Fund programmes and payments made with regard to the programmes have progressed far too slowly. On the other hand, regional differences have also grown. It is therefore very clear that regional aid will be needed in the future too, as Mr Puerta suggested.Delays in structural policy were largely due in the early stages to the slow preparatory work undertaken by the Commission and the Member States. Now it is burdensome administration and complicated, rigid procedures that are causing the delays. These are also causing problems in countries that have kept to the timetable. The implementation thus far of both last year’s and this year’s budgets have led to a considerable increase in unpaid amounts of money. Our group is very worried about the possible negative impact that will have on next year’s budget and the Union’s structural policy both later on and in general. There should be compliance, however, with the N+2 rule, as it will help shore up implementation of the Structural Funds.Now we are compelled to ask, despite this communication and Mr Barnier’s fine words, what the Commission intends to do before this parliamentary term ends. What concrete measures are there, whereby practices associated with the Structural Funds can be clarified, simplified, and speeded up? This is a very tough question too because enlargement is just around the corner and we need to find remedies for these problems, with more in the way of results and less bureaucracy.
Mr President, why is there a deafening silence when it comes to Europe’s response to the mass-scale crimes in Algeria? This silence is in stark contrast with our condemnation of what else goes wrong in the world. The massacres in Algeria have not ceased. People continue to mysteriously disappear. Torture is still the order of the day.In the past year alone, two to three hundred people were killed each month in the most appalling way. If we take stock of ten years of excessive violence, the statistics are horrifying. One hundred and fifty-thousand people killed and another ten thousand people vanished. That is twice as many as under the Pinochet regime.President Buteflika made fine promises to curb violence, enter into dialogue and look into disappearances. But little of these promises has been translated into action. People still go unpunished. Barbarians who in the dead of night carry out monstrous slaughterings, continue to get off scot-free. Similarly, security troops who are guilty of wrong-doings are not being brought to justice.Plenty of reason, therefore, to take the Algerian authorities to task about this. But why, in fact, is this not being done? Is it because of the French business interests in the former colony? Are the Member States keeping quiet because they are hoping to secure some lucrative business deals themselves? Are we fearful about Algerian terrorism in our own countries? Or is it mainly the fear of further fanning the flames of Muslim fundamentalism? The most fundamental task of the state is to protect its people. It is shameful how the Algerian authorities do not come up to the mark in this respect.It is high time that the European Union took a stand for the sake of the Algerian population and put its own interests second. The violence has got to stop. An association agreement must be struck at the earliest opportunity, thus allowing us to intensify the political dialogue. My question to the Commissioner is the following: what is the latest? For we cannot keep quiet any longer.
Mr President, in 1950 Robert Schuman launched the idea of a European Coal and Steel Community open to all States, thereby creating the basis for the complex and difficult journey of European unification, the most recent developments of which we are now experiencing. Even then the importance of steel in the European context was clear. I am not surprised therefore that the debate in this Parliament concerning the ‘Terni case’ has aroused so much interest and the opinions expressed have to a large extent not been dependent on political affiliations.The European iron and steel sector is currently suffering as a result of the decision taken by the US to impose import duties on steel, principally from the European Union. The crisis in Italy is important because it involves other iron and steel centres, like the steel plant in Genoa-Cornigliano. In that context, the announcement by Thyssen Krupp, the owner of the Terni iron and steel plant, that it is going to invest in South Korea to produce steel in Asia is of major importance and is causing a good deal of concern.As you know, the Terni plant was sold in 1994 as part of the process of privatisation promoted by the Institute for Reconstruction of Industry (IRI), subject to a guarantee that its activities would continue in Italy and that jobs would be protected. This is not a company in crisis but a company that produces a leading-edge product used to make thin metal sheets for electronic transformers. Furthermore, there are no other factories of this type in Italy. The technology used at Terni and the studies and research carried out in recent years are of an extremely high standard. Losing skills and know-how is exactly the opposite of the knowledge economy to which President Prodi recently referred in this Parliament. It is no coincidence that directors, managers, researchers and local politicians lined up alongside the workforce to fight on behalf of the product and the research associated with it. About 900 workers are likely to lose their jobs, not counting the knock-on effects.We cannot, therefore, ignore the fact that the German multinational received funds and tax breaks from the European Union when it decided to acquire the Terni plant. I also wonder what the significance is, in global terms, of transferring production to Korea, what technological skills workers employed in South-East Asia have, what trade union rights they have and whether those rights will be observed.At a meeting last December, some European Union industrial manufacturers in the footwear and textiles sector posed a number of questions concerning those matters to the delegation from China, which is preparing itself to become the factory of the world. The replies were extremely evasive and we had no grounds for thinking that elsewhere on the continent – with the exception of Japan – the situation was any better. Above all, in a market economy based on competition the rules must …(The President cut off the speaker)
Mr President, the accident in Japan has again reminded us of the very great risks associated with nuclear power. Again, it was human error which caused the accident but, as human beings, we are made in such a way that we easily make mistakes. It is this which is the big risk in connection with nuclear power.The export of MOX from Sellafield in Great Britain means that both Great Britain and the EU are involved in this problem. That is why I personally share the points of view expressed in the draft amendments submitted by the. We in thedo not, however, consider that they are sufficiently at home with this issue. We shall therefore abstain in the vote.
This proposal for a Council decision is in line with the action intended to improve the networks of knowledge in Europe. The actions that have been planned are designed to address the clear advantage held by the United States in the “digital content” sector and in its distribution by various means linked to the Internet.Europe is clearly in a position to respond to the challenge of the markets, due to its advantages in economic and employment terms, and, of course, due to its cultural wealth and linguistic diversity – which are shown clearly in the concept of linguistic minorities and regional languages – over the monolingualism that characterises much of the “Web”.The variety of languages and cultures – particularly if we also take account of the potential offered by new Member States – also allows us, especially where the SMEs are concerned, to facilitate exchanges and to export Europe’s cultural values, and to do so in multilingual forms characterised by an increasing interaction with translation systems.It must be emphasised that linguistic minorities, rather than being overwhelmed by the globalisation brought about by the Internet, have discovered that it opens up new cultural and economic horizons.Lastly, our huge heritage of knowledge residing in public archives, which are today often inaccessible, must be put onto the web.
Mr President, I would like to thank the Commissioner for his wake-up call on the internal market, which is to be congratulated on its ten-year anniversary. We sometimes forget that the internal market is still a process and represents a lot of unfinished business and you were right to remind us of this, Commissioner. If we look at our committee's agenda, most of the work has as its basis the good functioning of the internal market. Still, sadly, as you reminded us, with issues like the Community patent, those big decisions are still being flunked, sometimes, it has to be said, in the Council.It is strange because the internal market has been such a success story for Europe, a vision that we managed to sell effectively to our citizens in the run-up to 1992. Maybe it is drifting a bit and it really is time to re-engage our citizens, and particularly small and medium-sized enterprises, in what we are doing. What is in it for them? How does the market work for them?It is again a paradox: with the euro and with e-commerce, the internal market really ought to be taking off. Although you mentioned a survey which showed so much support for the internal market, I really do not think we can take that for granted.I and my colleagues on this committee were glad to be a part, some months ago, of an internal market forum that was organised in this parliament. We should do more of that to re-engage with our citizens and businesses about what the market is there for.If we achieve that, and if citizens and businesses are engaged, the level of implementation and excitement in Member States will be much greater and much more complete. I would like to echo Maria Berger's concerns about the European Convention. The internal market must find a key place in those discussions, or we risk losing what we have created and made such a success of.
Mr President, there is no need to repeat what my colleagues Mr Goodwill and Mr Whitehead have said regarding the significant agreement that we have reached in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy. Allow me nevertheless to say that, after what has happened over the last few days when we have had further cases of BSE in France, it is clear that we still have a long way to go before we have a completely safe market as far as beef is concerned. There is only one way to regain the consumers' trust and that is by guaranteeing the quality of the products.If we had an ideal world in the EU we would have had a foodstuffs authority which could have checked and ensured that everyone behaved according to the rules. Then the quality of the meat would have been to a large extent the same throughout the Union, and it would at least have maintained the EU standard everywhere. If we had also been able to ensure that everyone followed the rules regarding transportation, we would not need to run the risk of animals suffering during transit. Now, however, we need a system that involves stating where the animals come from, where they were born, where they were reared and where they were slaughtered. In this way the consumer is provided with information regarding how the animal may have fared and whether it may have been subjected to long journeys in transit.Mr President, in conclusion, the most important thing is that we obtain a system which means that by looking at a label on the meat we can see where it comes from, and that it is then possible to trace back through the complete foodstuffs chain to the original producer. This is where we need to get to.
Mr President, today’s good news is that the UN General Assembly has, by a very large majority, adopted a resolution demanding that Israel stop erecting the so-called security wall. The resolution even demands that those parts of the wall that have already been built should be torn down. Today’s bad news is that, in spite of the UN decision, Israel is continuing to build the wall. In the report we are debating, the European Parliament regards the bringing of peace to the Middle East as the most important task to be shared with the United States, together with Russia and the UN. We reiterate, moreover, our unqualified support, with which the UN decision is splendidly in keeping, for the implementation of the road map.Today, we are also able, together with Commissioner Patten, to be delighted that the hierocracy in Iran is to allow comprehensive inspections and to refrain from producing uranium for use in nuclear weapons. The final Iranian acceptance of nuclear inspections followed a visit by the foreign ministers of Germany, France and Great Britain – an international agreement for which the EU can take credit. We are today debating a sound report, and that is something for which I should also like to thank Mr Brok. It is a very concise report, but not a short one, and I only have a short time in which to mention some of the points I think important. The US-NATO relationship is quite fundamental to the European security structure, and we must support the development of reinforced cooperation in the defence area.Asia, and China in particular, has not been given as much attention in the report as might perhaps have been wished. The increased tensions in relations between China and North Korea is cause for concern, but what is more worrying is, of course, the fact that North Korea will not phase out its nuclear weapons programme. We regard this as a considerable threat to stability in Asia. The Taiwan issue must also be mentioned in this context. In a democratic institution such as this, we must regret the lack of progress on this matter. Taiwan is both democratic and peaceful, but the Taiwanese cannot live in the same manner as people in other free, democratic countries, given the way its neighbour is behaving. I should like to call for a new dialogue between China and Taiwan and for the EU to do more in pressing for a solution to the conflict.
Mr President, Liberal Democrats in this House join the tributes which have been paid to Sergio Vieira de Mello and all the other victims of the callous attacks on the United Nations in Baghdad.The unstable and violent situation in Iraq shows that while a coalition of the willing may be able to win a military conflict, winning the peace without the legitimacy of the United Nations is a much more difficult matter.My Group, therefore, welcomes the tentative moves towards a UN resolution which would place the coalition forces in Iraq within a multilateral framework. Liberals have always favoured a multilateral resolution to the problems posed by Iraq, and if the coalition is belatedly coming round to that view, then it is better late than never.The so-called 'coalition of the willing' was a curiously outdated 19th century balance of power concept, which always carried with it the danger of leaving at least one nation feeling aggrieved. What we seek is a multilateral, rules-based framework for crisis management within which there is space for the hurts of nations to heal. There is no reason why the United States should not retain command of a multinational UN force in Iraq, but it must be based on a UN resolution and give the UN and contributing nations the central role in decision-making.Failure thus far to find weapons of mass destruction is leading to searching questions at hearings in London, Washington and Canberra and raising doubts about the legitimacy of the enterprise. The way to give the international presence in Iraq a sense of legitimacy and regain the trust of the Iraqi people is to mount a UN-backed drive to restore security, to improve the lives of ordinary Iraqis and to move towards government by popular mandate.The swearing-in of Iraq's first post-Saddam cabinet today is a tremendous step forward in that respect. We hope that the timetable for elections by the end of next year can be maintained.My Group welcomes the Commission's initiative in convening a preparatory meeting today in Brussels for the important conference of international donors next month in Madrid.
We are critical of Mr Cuhna’s report on leaf tobacco. In our view, the amendments tabled represent, in general, an out-of-date agricultural policy which does not meet the conditions and needs of modern global society.In the light of this, and with a view to the impending general review of the EU’s agricultural policy, we have chosen to vote against the report in its entirety.
Mr President, Commissioner, we are concerned with the interim reform of the CAP for three major sectors that are particularly important to the Mediterranean area. I shall focus on olive oil.In this regard, the proposal contains an unequivocal reference to the need to maintain the farmers’ quality of life and standard of living. It also refers to the need to combat fraud and guarantee a high quality product.I should like to point out that there is a considerable difference in the production of olive oil, depending on the area concerned. The yield can vary between 200 kg and 400 kg per hectare in some regions to over 800 kg per hectare in others. Consequently, aid should not be restricted solely to aid for production.Commissioner, there has been frequent mention of the multi-functional role of agriculture. Olive oil production is no exception. In disadvantaged areas, it enables farmers to enjoy a reasonable standard of living. It ensures that the population stays on the land. These areas would otherwise suffer from depopulation and all the ensuing problems. Decoupling could provide a further incentive.In my view, Member States should be able to offer all olive oil producers assurance and security on the basis of the hectares under cultivation, regardless of the amount of oil produced.
Mr President, it is clear to me that we could easily have turned the 150 pages of the White Paper on the Commission’s transport policy into a 300-page vision. Procedurally, we in the European Parliament are bound by this report. I did not envy the rapporteur. He had to integrate, reflect and summarise the different views on transport that are held in this House to enable the European Commission to derive a clear view or position. A clear report on such a broad topic with its challenging title ‘for 2010’ seemed a huge task. I was glad to be involved in the preparation with the rapporteur and the other shadow rapporteurs to create the outlines of a vision that the European Commission can go on. I am satisfied with the outlines and I believe we can move forward. Sections to quicken liberal hearts are those in the area of infrastructure charging, the passing on of external costs of the different modes of transport, the relative separation of economic growth and transport growth, greater attention to multimodal transport developments and attention to inland navigation. What I want is articulated wonderfully well and I am pleased with Mr Izquierdo’s contribution.Before I get bogged down in the Commission’s details, I should like to make further mention of the Commission’s methodology and also its objective in its White Paper. The methodology of cross-taxation with a view to transferring the pressure away from road transport to the other modes of transport must not be allowed to lead to distortion of competition in the transport market. What I want to say is that each mode of transport has its own comparative benefits, and this is what we must focus on in the first instance. I can see good opportunities in the future for rail and inland navigation, but also for coastal navigation. In short, I was pleased that Mrs de Palacio was also so positive about inland navigation this afternoon and I hope that there is sufficient attention to multimodal interchanges and quality with the use of ICT.
Mr President, I would like to stress the importance of the renewed attention being paid in this parliamentary term to the 75 million people aged between 15 and 25, who from 1 May, will be part of the enlarged Europe. If we extend the parameters to include those aged 30, this figure will clearly be even higher.Indeed, in Italy and in other countries of the European Union this is the only age group that actually enters the labour market on a permanent basis. One basic view is that young adults are no different to adults, but they are adults in a different way. They therefore have rights and duties, some of which are different to those pertaining to other citizens and some are similar. On the basis of exhaustive and extensive research, the Gröner report proposes a commitment that is also a challenge: to increase the participation and information of young people in politics. The information that we must manage and provide for them must be clear and specific. Achieving the participation that we are hoping for will not be easy, but learning to participate and learning to provide information is the best approach to developing the awareness of active citizenship that not all adults are putting into practice. If we agree that those who do not have a past do not have a future, then the only choice we have is to pass on the founding values of our past to young people, who are our future. In this way, these updated and revised values will be the seeds for tomorrow’s growth.We are totally in favour of the European Youth Week because it also symbolises the priority commitment that is being given to a new drive for European youth that can count on several assets, such as intercultural learning, environmental protection, sport and art, to give just a few examples.We are redoubling our efforts as adults on social exclusion and xenophobia because it is not words but practical deeds and actions that have the greatest educational impact. Thus, working on young people and for young people also becomes a way to work on ourselves and we should thank young people for this opportunity.
Madam President, I should like to touch upon quite a small part of the budget, namely that relating to the decentralised agencies, as they are called. Two agencies have the problem of being physically situated in countries where the rate of inflation is higher than the EU average, and this erodes their budgets and, therefore, their ability to carry out their tasks. One of the agencies is that in Dublin, which is engaged in developing the social dialogue, partly in the candidate countries. The other agency is that in Turin which develops vocational training in the Balkans and within the framework of the MEDA and TACIS programmes. The Commission’s budgeting does not take account of this problem of inflation, and I believe that more new agencies are at present being established in order to ensure there is the necessary administrative expertise. The agencies differ greatly from one another in the ways in which they are set up and in the tasks they have, and I therefore hope that, in the future, we can obtain a budget reading that better takes account of the agencies’ different structures and different needs.
Madam President, Prime Minister, I too would like to welcome the Prime Minister here. It is not quite the same as at home in the Swedish Parliament, but you get used to it fairly quickly.Many issues revolve around the three Es. Allow me to highlight a fourth one, namely E for Empathy. We were all deeply shocked after the Christmas celebrations by the image of people struggling for their lives off the coast of Turkey in their attempt to get to Europe. Many people died in their fight for a better life. I know that you, Prime Minister, expressed your dismay after the awful tragedy last year when 58 Chinese people were found dead in a container in Dover.Europe must not be transformed into some kind of fortress. The European asylum and refugee policy must be characterised by dignity and humanity – that was your message at the time. But what has happened since? Well, the development in Europe has taken a wrong turn.It has been proposed that the penalties for trafficking in human beings be made more severe. This is necessary, but the proposals are unfocused in their effect. Non-profit-making organisations – churches, religious orders, asylum organisations and private networks which support asylum seekers – are threatened with penalties. These proposals must be stopped. In Sweden, protection against the violation of the sanctity of churches has prevailed since the Middle Ages.European leaders should reflect on why trafficking in human beings to Europe is dramatically increasing. Europe is being closed. To impose a visa requirement on 130 countries is not worthy of a democratic Europe. The basic rule must be that people have the right to travel freely to the EU. Is the Swedish Presidency prepared to work towards making the list of countries from which visas are required considerably shorter?I am an ardent supporter of the EU and have for a long time now wanted to see common rules within the asylum and refugee policy, but we Liberals are not prepared to accept any kind of ‘cordoned-off’ Europe. This, Prime Minister, is an opportunity for the new presidency to make an important contribution towards humanity and human dignity in the spirit of Raoul Wallenberg, whose memory you have so commendably honoured. Empathy is the key word.IN THE CHAIR: MR DAVID MARTINVice-President
This report concerns a private and sensitive subject for many women who, either for aesthetic or medical reasons, have had breast implant operations carried out.We support the idea that all patients involved should be provided with information about risks, alternative options and post-operative investigations. At the same time, we are convinced that this can be done other than through privacy-invading, compulsory registration, which is a measure we do not believe to be in accordance with our approach to politics.What is more, certain parts of the report concern patient issues, which do not come within the EU’s area of competence. In our view, breast implants are therefore an issue, important though it is, that is better dealt with at national level. We have therefore chosen to vote against the report as such.
Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking Mr Mantovani for the work he has done on this report. I say that, even though there are features of the report in its final form with which my group disagrees. I should like to thank the Commission for the survey it has given us of future care for the elderly, for I do believe that the Commission communication is genuinely constructive. It indicates a number of overriding goals in terms of access, quality and financial sustainability. It also points out that, even though we know that there will be many more elderly people in the future, it is quite uncertain what that will actually mean in the form of future financial burdens. Over and above this, it points out that, in many areas, the EU has opportunities to make joint contributions under the current rules. That is true in relation to public health policy, on the basis of Article 152 of the Treaty, to economic policy and to the development of the internal market.We therefore have a host of opportunities for cooperating under the existing rules. My group must therefore also reject Parliament’s present proposal, as put forward in the report, that we should introduce outright open coordination when it comes to health policy and policy in relation to the elderly. We have tabled a number of amendments, and if, as I really believe will be the case, it is not possible for these to be supported by Parliament, we shall find it difficult to support the report as a whole.The open coordination method has, of course, become very popular in recent years and is used in a great many areas of economic policy, such as pensions, social exclusion within education and the convergence criteria in employment policy. It is a good form of cooperation in which a number of common objectives are set that can be achieved in different ways. I am a great believer in using open coordination because it is a way of achieving common objectives without needing to legislate in a lot of new areas, but I think it important that open coordination be binding.In some areas, open coordination is directly authorised by the treaties. That applies in the case of economic policy and employment policy. In other areas, there is a less obvious basis in the treaties, or else there is really no basis. It might be said that the Member States have every possible freedom to decide to coordinate their efforts and develop good practice. That is something we have done within the framework of the OSCD for many years, but the difference between OSCD reports and the open coordination we undertake within the framework of the EU is – and, in my view, should be – that open coordination is more binding and that the countries in actual fact undertake to pursue the common objectives. In addition, the parties concerned are very actively involved.I think it would be wrong of us to allow the use of open coordination to escalate to the point of its being used in every possible area. It is of course a basic principle of EU cooperation that we accept diversity and difference. It is an advantage that we have many different models so that we can learn from each other. We must not sneak harmonisation in through the back door in areas where national competence should clearly apply. That is not something for which we would be thanked.In the health sphere, there are many areas in which cooperation and common rules are important and necessary, and there are therefore clear rules about this in the Treaty. Cooperation will develop via the internal market, as a result of that internal market and through other cooperation, such as cooperation on research. As for a common EU policy on residential homes, however, my response is no thank you.
Mr President, the Commission is in an unenviable position. Airlines are almost certainly breaking the law on data protection by giving the US authorities confidential information about their passengers. To take action would harm our airlines and may lead to disruption in travel to the US; not to act rides roughshod over individual privacy in the European Union.The Commission has sought to reach an agreement with the United States. The concerns about this agreement are widespread. They are shared by the Article 29 Committee, and quite possibly by the heads of state and government meeting last weekend, who amended the draft presidency conclusions on this issue. They are very much borne out from this House in this report. In the United States widespread criticism of methods adopted by the government in the fight against terrorism is evident, whether it is to do with the policy of detention without trial or the way in which the heavy hand of the state is being imposed in areas like this.The Commission's proposed deal on the transfer of data is a deal too far: more information is sought than is strictly necessary; that information can be held too long with no right for the individual to correct it; there is no right to compensation for people denied boarding of aircraft and no legal redress against abuse of personal data by the state. Liberal Democrats believe that it is possible to be tough on terrorism and true to the treaties we have signed on civil liberties. We bow to nobody in our determination to fight terrorism. We urge our Member States to act more effectively. We recognise the need to work with democracies across the Atlantic; but let us do so intelligently, with a response that is measured and proportionate, and not sacrifice our freedoms in our determination to fight those who threaten them.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs. – Mr President, the General Secretary of the American National Council of Churches has recently branded the denial of human rights at Guantanamo Bay as a sin against God. I do not take a religious perspective, but it is clear that it is not only Europeans who feel strongly that the situation at Guantanamo Bay offends against our sense of justice. One of the senior justices in the United Kingdom, Lord Steyn, branded the proposed military tribunals at Guantanamo Bay as a stain on US justice and the term 'kangaroo court' springs to mind. The British Court of Appeal has branded the detention of prisoners there as a legal black hole.The Bush administration has argued that the Geneva Conventions are obsolete when it comes to dealing with terrorists and has chosen to apply neither these conventional laws of war nor the criminal law in which human rights norms should apply, that is the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights or the US Constitution. It has tried to straddle both by inventing a new, residual category of 'unlawful combatant' in the potentially unlimited war on terror, which is transformed from a metaphorical to a literal term. However, that status is unknown in international law.Sadly, the denial of the prisoners' right to access to normal civil courts and the protection of the US Constitution has been backed by the US courts on the grounds that Guantanamo Bay – even though the US is in actual control of the base – is not sovereign US territory. But it is welcome that the Supreme Court has now said it would decide on whether the US courts have jurisdiction.I would end by saying that I regret the absence of the Council in this debate since, as Commissioner Patten has pointed out, the Commission does not have jurisdiction, and the failure of the Council to adopt a common position and a strategy to implement the upholding of the rule of law in Guantanamo Bay is a sad omission.
Mr President, as high a priority as possible ought to be given to transparency and to keeping EU citizens informed of the work being done in the EU. Providing factual and objective information about cooperation in Europe has become very important in recent years as we face considerable challenges with the extension of the EU into Central and Eastern Europe. It is especially important to explain what the common agricultural policy is about and to provide information about objectives, resources and potential for development. There are many target groups – farmers, first and foremost, but also people generally, as well as everyone directly or indirectly affected. If this work is to succeed, it is important that cooperation should be established with the farming organisations and also with consumers. The common agricultural policy was the first, and is also the most extensive, of the Community’s integrated policies and it accounts for a very large proportion of the EU’s budget. It is, therefore, also important to make it clear that the subsidy arrangements ensure that consumers obtain food at prices which, as a result of the subsidy, are lower than they would be without the subsidy. This means that the EU’s agricultural arrangements are of benefit to all EU citizens. The common agricultural policy is always undergoing change and development. It demands a great deal in terms of the supply of information and, especially, in terms of the coordination which is needed if cooperation is to succeed, both within the Member States and independently of the Member States. Circumstances are very different from one country to another, and it ought, therefore, to be farming organisations which are among the main players, because these organisations focus primarily upon farmers.
As an avid but critical supporter of the enlargement process, I felt the need to vote against the Brok report on the progress of the applicant countries.Firstly, the Brok report incorrectly states that the applicant countries continue to fulfil the political criteria set in Copenhagen in 1993. That is incorrect. If Parliament took the Commission's country reports seriously, we could not ignore the numerous examples of corruption, discrimination against minorities, lack of human rights protection and weak judicial systems in some applicant countries. I believe that human rights and the rule of law need to be the top priority for Parliament in the enlargement debate. Therefore I regard the report, which explicitly denies the problems that still exist in this area, as unacceptable.I am delighted that amendments underlining the absolute priority of the political criteria have been adopted along the lines of my own amendments adopted by the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs to its opinion. Parliament must now take its own words seriously and look in detail at the human rights situation in the applicant countries.(Abbreviated in accordance with Rule 137(1) of the Rules of Procedure)- Böge report (A5-0178/2002)
Mr President, Mr Blokland has carried out an enormous task. This subject is incredibly involved. Moreover, the lobbyists have been something else. I should never have believed that there were so many of them concerned about waste in Europe. You might have thought it was gold rather than waste they were talking about. One never knows, but it perhaps bodes well for the future that a recycling industry is developing which possesses such competence and power in terms of financial resources and personnel.Obviously, the EU must create a sustainable system for protecting air, land and water. This is a common commitment and a common responsibility. It clearly ought, too, to be regulated at European Union level. But is this the right level at which to produce such very detailed technical descriptions as this Directive is attempting to produce? Ought it not, rather, to be the case that decisions should be made on permitted emission levels for various substances, on the measurement systems and on how the measurements are to be carried out and that, subsequently, the principle of subsidiarity should be applied? It is true that, when it comes to the ways in which waste is dealt with and is co-incinerated using large quantities of biomass fuels, there are really quite enormous differences between northern Scandinavia (where the transport routes are also long) and the densely populated areas of Central Europe where the problem is, quite literally, more one of waste incineration and of refuse collection and disposal than of, for example, generating combined power and heat. I should like us at some point, but not now, to debate the opportunities for creating framework legislation in this area.
Mr President, I am sorry to have lost the opportunity to bend Madam President’s ear. I wanted to ask her to plead with Air France not to switch, as is rumoured, its flight from City Airport to Gatwick – that is if the flight works, because this week it was cancelled. I wanted to thank her for being willing to give her personal attention to these matters.If we are navel-gazing and examining our working conditions and those of our staff this morning, it is not a question of comfort and convenience, but because we want to be efficient as elected representatives and in spending taxpayers’ money. Strasbourg is indeed a beautiful city. If I was a tourist I would have no problem spending one week out of four here, it would be delightful. Many parts of this building are impressive and beautiful, although it is also, in my opinion, grandiose. I concur with what has been said about waste and the need for recycling and energy saving and I believe that we must practice what we preach both in the area of health and safety and energy saving.I would like to raise three particular points. First of all I am unhappy that we have lost one-third of our offices to an unnecessary bathroom. Please could I get mine removed and have extra office working space instead? Secondly, in the ladies toilets we are faced with constant flooding, and it is particularly unfair on the cleaners who have to constantly go round mopping up. As far as I can see, it is a very simple problem of excessive water pressure so the water spills everywhere around the basin and on to the floor. Could someone reduce the water pressure? Finally, could we start the session on a Thursday at 2 p.m. instead of 3 p.m. and have the votes on urgencies at 4.30 p.m. This would mean that I could catch the 6 p.m. flight, assuming of course it still exists, to City Airport. This might help a lot of people if we could leave on Thursday night instead of Friday.I am conscious of the fact that it costs, I think, around EUR 200 million a year extra to have this travelling circus and I am indignant that the European Parliament is unable to decide its own place of work. We are wasting taxpayers’ money and we are not as efficient as we ought to be as elected representatives. I take my job seriously and I am sure all my colleagues have also come here to work, not to treat this place as a club, but to actually do their jobs as elected representatives. I want to be able to go back to my constituents and tell them that I am an efficient representative.
Mr President, I would like to start by extending my compliments to the rapporteur, Mr van Hulten, on his first report. I very much admire him for keeping his spirits up at a time when he was inundated with so many amendments. I think that the report drawn up by the Wise Men has been useful and I think that it is also useful for this Parliament – as already stated by Mrs Morgan – that we ourselves should ask for expertise from outside for once to see how our administration is run. We have submitted an amendment to this effect.From the many points made by Mr van Hulten in his report, I would like to highlight a few, not necessarily in order of importance but just randomly. Firstly, I think that the Commission should pay much more attention to the proper storage of documents. The Commission’s records leave a great deal to be desired. We noticed this when we had to investigate the Flechard affair, which, as it happens, has still not been sorted out. Curiously, very important documents had gone missing from the cabinets, even from those of the President and of various Directorates-General, and this is clearly something which should not happen. If Parliament want to carry out proper inspections, these documents must be available, and I would like to know what the Commission intends to do to improve this situation.I would also like to say a few words about ex post financial control. This has also been partly dealt with in the van Hulten report. I think it would be useful if we were to give report figures per category and per sector on how the budget is implemented. The general impression at present is that anything budget-related within Europe is bad. It is clear that, over the past couple of years, we have noticed an upward trend in agriculture and a downward one in structural expenditure. Is this possible? I would like to suggest to the Commission that it prescribe a deadline by which the reforms have to be carried out. If we admit new Member States then we need to put our own House in order first.
Mr President, I would ask you to check the second part of recital M. The Swedish-language version states that it is a question of strengthening European citizenship. The English version uses a similar concept, right enough, while the French version talks about nationalité. Nationality and citizenship are not the same thing. European citizenship is what we support.
Mr President, the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party is in favour of Croatia’s accession to the European Union. It will also point the way to accession for other countries in the western Balkan region. Macedonia has already submitted its application. TheGroup supports Croatia in its efforts to prepare for accession to the EU and to succeed in the accession negotiations. At the same time we would state that we require better levels of cooperation from Croatia with the Hague Court than hitherto.Our group is asking for a separate vote on paragraph 1(q), which urges Member States to ratify the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the EU and Croatia. Some Member States have postponed ratification precisely because they have been dissatisfied with Croatia’s levels of cooperation with the Hague Court. Our group thinks they should be able to consider when the agreement should be ratified themselves.Croatia’s accession will once again be a new step in the enlargement of the European Union. When Bulgaria, Romania, Turkey and the five countries in the western Balkan region join the Union, the number of Member States will rise to 33. Moldova and Ukraine have also taken their first step towards accession, and they have been invited to the European conference. Enlargement works on the principle that all European countries that fulfil the conditions for accession can join the Union. As enlargement progresses the EU’s Wider Europe Policy and Neighbourhood Policy will become ever more important. The European Parliament must also get more involved in these than it has up till now. On the other hand, a rapidly enlarging Union must differentiate internally, employing a process of closer cooperation. Internal differentiation and the Wider Europe Policy will gradually allow us to create a Europe of concentric circles. Finally, I would like to thank my colleague Alexandros Baltas for his excellent work in drafting this report.(Applause)
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen. This directive confirms once and for all that European democracy and transparency is closely connected to the freedom and pluralism of the media. Therefore, media concentration jeopardises freedom of conscience and is a grave injury to human dignity.In its Green Paper of 21 May 2003, the Commission calls for specific measures to be looked at once again to actively protect pluralism; in its Recommendation of 28 January 2003, the Council expressed the same concern; in its Resolution of 20 November and the two reports by Mr Sylla and Mr Perry, Parliament said likewise. We must, therefore, give a specific response through a Commission initiative to this effect.We are in a constituent phase. The draft Constitution includes the Charter of Fundamental Rights, Article 11(2) of which explicitly enshrines the right to freedom and pluralism of the media. What sense is there, however, in adopting a Constitution when that is, itself, negated by the present situation?
Mr President, I should like to thank Mr Graça Moura for a splendid piece of work and for the energy he has put into drawing up this report. I should also like to thank the Council for being so accommodating and the Commission for the role it has played as mediator, especially just recently. The Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party is very happy to support initiatives which may create greater awareness of the value of linguistic diversity in the European Union. It is important that the EU’s citizens should be encouraged to learn foreign languages early on in school and also throughout their lives. A knowledge of languages is important, for European languages are of great significance to European culture and civilisation, and people need good language skills in order to be able to find employment in EU countries other than their own. The programme for the European Year of Languages offers a splendid basis for providing information about the many different opportunities there are for learning foreign languages, and it is important. Mr Graça Moura’s proposal includes the 11 official EU languages, together with a number of other languages recognised by the Member States, including Irish and Luxembourgish. The Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party also thinks that the programme should include other languages which are actually used in the various Member States, for instance Catalan in Spain and Frisian in the Netherlands. Finally, in the programme for the European Year of Languages, consideration is also given to the forthcoming enlargement of the Union, something which we in the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party consider to be crucial to all EU programmes. On behalf of the Group, I can recommend supporting this programme.
Mr President, it is Parliament’s intention to give consumers reassurance and also to provide a firm and clear legal framework for companies which work with GMOs. The Commission’s regulation is not clear on either front. Firstly, I would like to say that, to my mind, there is an injudicious use of terminology. You are using the word contamination, whilst, in my opinion, what you mean to say is “presence”. This is why I have submitted an amendment to our text to delete the word contamination.Then there is also a lack of clarity, as mentioned by Mrs Jackson and Mr Bowe in this respect. Up to one percent is permitted in unforeseen circumstances, so by accident. I would like to know from you what constitutes these unforeseen circumstances, when it is and is not permitted. How is this evidenced? You also require proof. I am wondering how this is done. Case by case: how should I interpret this? So if, for example, a lorry has loaded 20 tonnes of corn, then 200 kg of this may be genetically modified corn. This is one percent. Or is this not permitted? So if a ship is loaded with 50,000 tonnes of soybean – I hear the largest ships can hold 50,000 tonnes – this may contain 500 tonnes, 500,000 kg of genetically modified soybean. Or have I got this wrong? Do you then say: if there is only 500 tonnes of GM soybean in this ship that this ship is GM-free? I must say, this sounds rather absurd to me. So I would like to find out from you what you mean by one percent in ingredients. Where and when will you check this?Under those circumstances, I do wonder if a label makes sense and the situation becomes completely absurd because the literature and circumstances show that a number of varieties can be imported and others cannot. How can you check up on this because it may involve hundreds of tonnes of goods which you are unaware are being imported. The Commission should take measures as a matter of urgency, clarify its proposals and shed more light on the whole matter. If food companies wish to offer commodities to their customers which are GMO-free, they should be able to do this and this is not possible under the current circumstances.
Madam President, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, I should like to state that we support Mr Santini’s proposal, as adopted by the committee. The purpose of the directive is to give more content to EU citizenship and to increase people’s freedom of movement within the Community.The proposal would mean a consolidation of the present multiplicity of regulations, directives and judgments in this area. In this way, the state of the law would become clearer and less ambiguous. Clear legislation would, at the same time, mean that it would be easier to overcome many of the practical obstacles to people’s freedom of movement that still exist.The  Group fully supports the principle of non-discrimination whereby EU citizens from other Member States are, as far as possible, treated according to the same rules as citizens of one’s own country. This directive is a step in the right direction.We also, however, support the progressive definition of the family incorporated into the proposal. On a general note, I should like to state straight away that the intention behind the proposal is not to lay down a definition of the family. The intention is, quite basically, to preserve family unity. The discussion surrounding the definition of the family ought not therefore to distract attention from the purpose of the proposal and the positive consequences of the directive’s being adopted, namely a strengthening of the basis of the rule governing freedom of movement, an increase in the mobility of the labour force and, of course, the preservation of family unity.
Mr President, I would first like to congratulate the rapporteurs, Mr Mastorakis and Mr Pomés Ruiz, for their excellent reports. Cohesion policy is a basic precondition for the existence and legitimacy of the EU as a whole. A mechanism is needed which will also boost prosperity in the most disadvantaged regions. Cohesion policy is founded on the Treaty on European Union. Both in the present Treaty and that being drafted by the European Convention regional and social cohesion is presented as a principle that runs through all policy areas.When the new Member States join the European Union, they will all be in need of structural development. The danger is that regional and structural policy funding with regard to the old Member States will decrease. Then these least favoured regions in terms of their economy would be having to pay more for enlargement than the regions that are economically the strongest, which, on the other hand, will benefit most from it. For that reason, funding for the former eligible areas must not be reduced.In Finland and Sweden in particular, there are sparsely populated, remote regions, the current Objective 1 areas, for which access to markets is difficult. That is why these regions should be considered very remote areas on a par with the Canary Islands, Madeira and the Azores.A particular problem is the way the Structural Funds are currently administered, which is inefficient and bureaucratic. This is visible in the under utilisation of funds, which is catastrophic. In 2000, EUR 6.7 billion of appropriations remained unspent; in the following year the amount was EUR 8.7 billion, and in 2002 it was EUR 6.2 billion. Outstanding commitments now stand at more than EUR 90 billion, or almost the equivalent of the budget for three years. This jeopardises the credibility of this whole area of policy. Administration must be dramatically reformed and greatly simplified. The so-called n+2 rule, created to make administration more efficient, does not work, because the Commission accepts repeated advance payments as means of payment, even though the project itself should not even have been started. That is why this rule too should be revised.
Tourism is an important engine for the development of economic activity in many parts of Europe. Naturally, we support the promotion of cooperation within the tourist sector so that this can be developed both economically and socially throughout Europe.Subsidiarity is nonetheless something we safeguard and, for that reason, we are abstaining from voting on this report. The introduction of a legal basis and a common framework for tourism would encroach too far upon the subsidiarity principle.
Mr President, Commissioner, I believe we should revisit vaccination policy. Mrs Roth-Behrendt is right. We should do this today, and not tomorrow. I have read reports from virologists and vets who claim that, in this day and age, adopting a non-vaccination policy is much like sitting on a time bomb. Apparently, there are a number of diseases which we still do not have under control, such as swine fever, and now also foot-and-mouth disease, by all accounts. This is why we need to reconsider all the factors involved, including the human dimension. Surely you cannot tell farmers every couple of years: look, you have worked really hard, but there is now a threat of a disease and we will have to eradicate your businesses. Then there is the aspect of animal welfare. It appears that the scientific arguments are still not fully concluded. All economic arguments have to be looked at, for internal consumption takes a real nosedive each time we hit a crisis. Just add up all the costs of these crises combined. We only need to look at the internal market: pigs are now being sold in the Netherlands at BEF 50/kg, and at BEF 80/kg in Belgium. It is only a matter of time before the first reports on smuggling will start to roll in.All these aspects should therefore be considered. After all, people, especially in my country, are increasingly mystified by your policy. You will therefore need to carefully explain what it is all about. You claim that no single country is asking for vaccination, but no single minister dares ask at this moment when a true European discussion will be held on this subject. The positions are shifting. When will we be able to hold a debate on this subject at the highest level?
Our debate today is on the future of Europe and I might take that as a point of departure. President Prodi has talked about the indispensable necessity of the institutional triangle: the Commission, Parliament and Council. It is indispensable and each part of it has a core, indispensable role and responsibility and benefits by the very fact of the three parts working well together.Personally, I am getting increasingly fed up with so-called analyses in newspapers and commentaries on issues of personality which miss the points of substance. The point of substance about the role of the Commission is that it is at the heart and core of the European project – and it is indispensably so – and that is the structure of truth which we must promote, defend and constantly revisit.With regard to a sense of Europe as Hans-Gert Poettering mentioned earlier, I believe it has been diminished at the highest level through Members of the European Council. Every State has a right to bilaterals and multilaterals but there is a time and a place for every one of those initiatives. It is not the time and place to conduct such an initiative immediately preceding and in the same place as a Council meeting that is meant to discuss the same issues, as at Ghent.When we reduce the European Security and Defence Policy to the somewhat farcical theatre of presence or absence at the dining policy at Downing Street, we diminish the idea of Europe itself and we need, from the top down, at the level of the European Council, a commitment to an internally consistent and coherent sense of Europe.The Commission President and Enrique Barón Crespo have both referred to this question of the interinstitutional dialogue and balance and President Prodi has talked about the very sensitive issue of call-back procedure. The one plea I would make, and we have already asked Parliament's Constitutional Affairs Committee to deal with this question with some urgency, is that before us now is the responsibility, among other things, to begin to implement one major part of the structural economic reform programme of Lisbon, namely to create a single European market for financial services. If we cannot work out the levels of commitment and lay down rules with proper conditions between Parliament, Commission and Council, we run the risk of failing to meet the target and the necessity for reform. There is therefore a general urgency and, in some parts, even a specific one.I hope all candidate countries will participate in the Convention, under the principles of Helsinki, namely equal treatment. That is all and there are 13 candidate countries. Secondly, I hope there will be a minimum period between the Convention and the IGC. I agree with all those who said that this business of reform must be finished before the next European election because then there will be a new Parliament, a new Europe after enlargement and a new Commission.(Applause)
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at the UN Climate Convention in Kyoto, the European Union accepted a target to reduce CO2 emissions by 8% by the year 2012, relative to emission levels in 1990. If we now know that cars are accountable for 12% of these CO2 emissions, if we know that people who buy cars are completely unaware of the fact that the car is a polluting tool and to what extent it does pollute, although, for example, they do know what the maximum permitted level of alcohol in the blood is or I know that if I buy a car which uses three litres per 100 km then this is quite an economical car, then it is a matter of urgency to make the consumer aware of car pollution. Only then can we ensure that the European Union will yield results when reducing CO2 emissions. We have to impress on people that, at the moment, we emit an average of 186 grammes of CO2 per kilometre by car and this must be cut down to 120 grammes per kilometre. So one way or another, we have to drum these grammes per kilometre into people.How will we do this? The directive proposes we provide information in four different ways. Firstly, it is suggested to introduce labels for new cars which specify information such as fuel consumption and CO2 emissions. Secondly, we can compile a guide containing this information on all new models, which also includes a top ten of the most economical and environmentally-friendly cars. A third suggestion is to display posters in showrooms with a list of data for all models on display and lastly, the fuel consumption and CO2 emission data should be included in advertisements for new cars.At the Commission’s proposal, the European Parliament submitted a number of amendments during the first reading. We have noted that the Council has incorporated a large number of these in its common position. Parliament had requested not to mention fuel costs. The Council went along with this. Parliament had also requested to make a fuel consumption guide available on the Internet and at European level. Again, the Council agreed. Mentioning CO2 emissions explicitly, as was suggested by Parliament, has also been complied with.There are two other points which the Council seems to have accepted to some extent, and one is that there should also be a “top ten” per category of cars. Although the Commission has stated that this is a complex issue, the Council still requests that the Committee concerned with the revision of this directive should look into this and get on with this categorisation exercise.A second point relating to the revision is that Parliament had requested that the directive should also apply to second-hand cars, managers’ cars and cars registered for the day. Upon revision, it is possible to include second-hand cars, according to the Council. Again, Parliament’s request has been met to some extent.Since the Council’s stance is so close to that of Parliament, I would recommend swift action, not tabling any amendments and approving the common position now so that, by the end of next year, the directive can enter into effect. I think this is rather more important than trying to achieve perfection in every last detail which would not make any significant difference. The Committee on the Environment has supported this proposal unanimously. This does not mean that we think this regulation is now perfect.A number of observations made by Parliament are important, however. From the very outset, it was clear, for example, that complete harmonisation was impossible. As such, the Member States can elaborate on the provisions set out here. We would ask the Committee to ensure that the internal market is not disrupted. That on the basis of best practices in one or more of the Member States, the provisions in this directive are applied in a manner which is as uniform as possible and that red-tape is avoided for manufacturers or sales outlets.I would like to put forward another three points. Parliament had also requested if it could be borne in mind that air-conditioning or other additional equipment can increase pollution levels, that the legal responsibility of manufacturers and dealers should be delineated more accurately and that, as such, managers’ cars and cars registered for the day should be included.The directive is a mere starting point. We now have to gather experience. We need to find out whether the environment is really an argument for the consumer when they are buying a car, i.e. whether they decide in favour of an environmentally-friendly rather than a less environmentally-friendly car. When the directive is evaluated, we will need to decide whether adjustments need to be made. The intention should at any rate be to reduce CO2 emissions as efficiently as possible and to act swiftly. This is why I would like to ask Parliament to adopt this directive.
Mr President, on behalf of the European Liberal Democrat and Reform Group I congratulate the President of the Commission on assembling a talented team of new Commissioners from the ten new Member States, France and Spain. We welcome the political balance that is found among the ten, as well as the presence of three women. My Group will be giving its support to the enlarged Commission when we vote at noon today.The European Union needs a strong, legitimate and accountable Commission, capable of providing political vision and leadership. Our leaders must reflect this in the Constitutional Treaty and in their nominations for the next Commission President – but we cannot have a strong Commission until this House takes more seriously its role as the third branch of European government.Once in every five years this Parliament is the Union's personnel officer. We are there to take the proper measure of those appointed to the Commission or its presidency. To date our hearings of Commissioners have been handicapped by too much partisanship and too little sustained, in-depth questioning. So all of the Commissioners nominated in November can expect tough questioning from MEPs of the political centre, the kind of questioning that was too little in evidence at last month's hearings.This Commission is the first for a new enlarged Europe and the imperative for Liberals in this House is to ensure that it is effective, committed and competent. It is also important that we restate and establish once and for all the long-standing principle of individual responsibility of Commissioners to Parliament for their policies and their departments. It is inevitable that the work of this Commission will bind that of the next, just as the work of this Parliament will not be undone on 14 June.Like any executive, the Commission aims to provide continuity in the management of Europe's business. Much of this business has political import, yet there should be no suggestion that business cannot be done simply because the Commission is approaching the end of its term. That argument not only impugns the professionalism of the Commission and its officials, but it parades a tenuous grasp of the European agenda.The Commission's mandate is for the running of the European Union and yet there seem to be some in this House who would have it closed down for the summer. Do they not envisage that the settlement of the European Union's budget for the next seven years or the question of Turkish membership might make some demands on the Commission's attention between now and November? Liebe deutsche Freunde, das müsst ihr ernst nehmen! To close down the Commission's right of initiative at this point would not only be wildly impractical, it would be downright irresponsible.Let us read between the lines here. My Group will not be party to efforts to paint the Prodi Commission as a lame duck. Nor will we be a part of attempts to manufacture that lameness now by restraining the Commission's powers. European Commissioners are bound to leave their politics at the water's edge. This House should show a similar maturity. The treaties require a degree of impartiality from Commissioners that would be difficult to counterfeit and that is why, for all their posturing, the critics of Mr Prodi have yet to provide any evidence that his other interests have negatively affected his work in Brussels.European Liberal Democrats and Reformers in this House have had their share of criticism of some of the Commission's policies but we have always recognised its individual talents and its collective commitment. This week we need only think of the extraordinary work of Commissioner Verheugen in helping secure a successful European enlargement.The new Commission will begin its term with one thing in its favour. Many familiar faces are likely to be there again in November. This continuity can and should be an asset. Likewise the Commission must have the necessary latitude over the next five months to prepare the ground and to maintain the momentum necessary to make it a success. Indeed, to insist on anything else – especially just to pay party political dues – is risible.(Applause)
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I can only express my hearty congratulations to Mr Salafranca on the thorough work he has done. It is true that to give real substance to all that was decided in Rio de Janeiro by the first Summit between Heads of State and Government of the European Union, Latin America and the Caribbean, the solemn declarations must be made concrete by transforming them into facts, strategies and opportunities that can give new life to the dialogue between the European Union and Latin America.We should not be surprised, then, that the Salafranca report states firmly that the only way the European Union can establish a genuine, bi-regional strategic partnership is to launch a new joint strategy with force and determination, and that the best time to do so may be precisely at the Madrid Summit in May 2002. It is right, therefore, to lay the foundations straight away and to find the simplest instruments that can be most readily understood by the citizens of both the European Union and South America. The creation of a single EU-Latin American Transatlantic Assembly will be most welcome; it must have the broadest remit, including, particularly, the fight against poverty and social exclusion, and the fight against drugs and organised crime, and it must also focus greatly on the basic sector of education, culture and free trade which, as the previous speaker pointed out, must come about without generating inequalities.The strategy, as the rapporteur suggests, could be one of a single bi-regional solidarity fund, clearly identified and thus more easily controlled. But apart from the technical financial instruments, what is fundamental is that there should be clear political will, that we should take on a greater burden, that the Union can and must commit itself to implementing a strong development cooperation policy. The historical, cultural and blood ties that link so many Europeans to Latin America mean that whenever one of us is in Latin America, Mr President, we feel at home. These ties impose a moral as well as a political obligation on us to continue to uphold with renewed vigour the specific nature of Europe’s role, which is based on the strength of those values that have been at the root of our project for integration. It is also for these reasons that, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal Democrat and Reform Party, I confirm our full support for this report.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I also wish to briefly address the issue of hunting. My view is that in certain Member States hunting brings an important extra source of food to the dining table. For example, in my country two million small and 100 000 large wild game animals are hunted every year and there are 300 000 hunters. It is therefore important. Game animals are naturally also for sale on shop shelves or they are given or sold to neighbours and relatives.Now the issue is whether it is reasonable for the EU to start regulating this sort of activity, which is often based on trust and close acquaintanceship. It is as if social control were a guarantee of quality when a local shopkeeper buys meet from a hunter to sell. A sense of moderation should be kept in these matters. I am also wholeheartedly in favour of accepting Amendment No 82 in this report by Mr Schnellhardt.
Welcome, President-in-Office. It is a pleasure to see you. I thank you very much for your reply and I would like to point out that new events have taken place since I submitted my question. Tomorrow, the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party is holding a seminar on the democratisation of Cuba. We had invited four Cuban citizens to take part in the meeting, but they were refused exit visas by the Cuban authorities. A quarter of an hour ago, I received a fax from the Cuban Ambassador, stating that the seminar was an affront to the people of Cuba. As you know, the Cuban regime has also pushed through an amendment to the constitution which gives Socialism a permanent place in the constitution. What is happening in Cuba is naturally an extreme provocation for the Communist regime.I wonder whether the Danish Presidency is preparing to bring further pressure to bear now that so many different initiatives in favour of democratisation are to be seen. The tentative improvements we saw appear not to be leading anywhere. The EU has a vital role to play in this matter, and the Cuban opposition desperately needs us.
Mr President, the clearest lessons from this foot-and-mouth epidemic are that we need greater vigilance and a new emphasis on animal health, stricter controls on imports from countries where the disease is endemic on swill-feed plants and livestock farms, on animal transport and contingency plans for disasters such as this. Our continent's livestock must never again be put in jeopardy by failures in one country's Ministry of Agriculture.Today, however, the task is not to apportion blame but to plan ahead. When the dust has settled we will find a devastated economic landscape in some of the more remote and vulnerable regions of the European Union, such as my constituency in south-west England. This is not simply a crisis in farming but a wasteland of failed businesses and job losses in tourism, transport and in other sectors. The Union can play an important role in helping to rebuild those economies. I seek the Commissioner's assurance that the Commission will talk now to the governments of the countries and regions affected about how structural fund and other programmes can be adapted to provide early and effective help.
Mr President, to begin with, I would like to express my regard for the statement made by the President-in Office of the Council this morning. It underlined the urgency and importance of what is happening in East Timor, where militias continue their endeavours to smother the struggle for independence in blood. We received information only the other day, both from Human Rights Watch and from Oxfam, and of course we have been able to see it with our own eyes on television. As we speak, it is evening in East Timor. It is precisely when it is dark, when night falls, that the civilian population is most afraid. Therefore, as a Parliament, the least we can do here is to express our support for that civilian population and for their legitimate aspirations. And that is why we support the idea of an international tribunal for calling the guilty to account, and why we will take action to protect the refugees.Mr President, I would like to join our parliamentary delegation of observers which was sent out on the initiative of the President of our Parliament and under the excellent leadership of the Vice-President of our Parliament, Mr José Pacheco Pereira. The Finnish Presidency is deserving of praise here too, for it initiated the idea of sending a delegation on behalf of the European Union. Whereas up until recently Portugal was practically the only country to carry this torch, now all the countries of the European Union are rallying behind the East Timorese struggle for independence. But, ladies and gentlemen, involvement of this kind comes at a price.We went to East Timor to reassure the population that they could vote in safety, and overwhelmingly large numbers of people have done so. But after we left, these same people were again put to the sword by the pro-Indonesian militias. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot stand by and let this happen. If we were to do so, it would mean that our delegation had been nothing more than a pointless exercise in referendum tourism.I would also like to draw your attention to developments in East Timor in the longer term. There has been an immediate and generous response from the European Union in terms of humanitarian emergency aid, but once the country has gained its independence it will be necessary to provide support for economic development and it will be at least as important to give our support to the establishment of democratic institutions. There is absolutely nothing of that kind in East Timor. No political parties, no system for the administration of justice, not a single functioning institution apart from the Church. I believe that a programme along the lines of the one we undertook in South Africa would be appropriate.Mr President, the campaign for the referendum was the most one-sided campaign I have ever experienced. Every attempt to pursue the campaign for independence met with violence. Yet still the people of East Timor voted overwhelmingly in favour of this independence. The protection that the Indonesian authorities were unable or unwilling to provide must now be immediately provided, without prior conditions, by an international peacekeeping force. We owe that to the people of East Timor, we owe that to UNAMET, which has carried out such excellent work, and we owe it to ourselves.Mr President, the people of Indonesia are themselves, or at least we hope this is the case, on the road to democracy, and have more than enough problems to come, even without East Timor. In future, we must turn our attention to these problems too. Nevertheless, it was right to suspend the bilateral aid for Indonesia for the time being, as we have learnt from recent experiences that pressure must be kept up until the whole process reaches a satisfactory conclusion.
Madam President, I am one of those MEPs who need to travel for 24 hours in order to be here by 5.00 p.m. I say this because I have spent half an hour trying to talk about the Minutes of the sitting of Friday, 7 July of this year.On Friday, 7 July, on behalf of the  Group, I tabled an amendment to Mrs Peijs’s report, which was fortunately accepted. However, the amendment has not been correctly translated into Spanish since, where it talks about the peripheral regions, I wished to refer, and I in fact did refer, to the outermost regions of the European Union.
Mr President, thank you for this innovation which is most welcome. I congratulate the Danish presidency very warmly and naturally I congratulate my colleague, Mr Haarder, a former good member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy as well as of this group, on his current tasks.However, friends in the presidency, I have a request for you which, as the Danish presidency, I believe you will wish to grant. Today in the Treaty of Rome we give rights – human rights and animal rights – but we give no rights to children. Yet the fall of the Berlin Wall and the ending of the Cold War threw open a devastating picture of child abuse, child neglect, child misery and child hunger and despair such as we have not seen in Europe since the Second World War. Today, with the enlargement of the European Union, the situation has not got better. Why do I say that? Because there is ample evidence, alas, that the breaking down of borders, that the enlargement of the European Union, factors such as globalisation, the Internet and Schengen Agreements have made the tragedy of child abuse still worse. Children today are at risk as they have not been before; they are trafficked around the globe in vast numbers. Traffickers, organised criminals and separation from their parents – these are among the many things of which children are victims.The European Union cannot do everything, but we are uniquely powerful. What I ask is that you work with me and with the Children's Alliance, a group of us across the floor of this House, belonging to every single group, so that we can secure unanimous support. We seek to put into the Accession Treaty and into the Treaty of Rome something so simple, just a commitment to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, which every single Member State has signed and ratified. The most important convention in the history of the world, it has the most ratifications. Only the USA now stands out against it. The Commission has played its part. It is in the acquis communautaire. It should now be in the Accession Treaty and in the Treaty of Rome. President—in-Office, will you work with me on this?
I applaud the innovative approach of the EQUAL programme and the aim of integrating discriminated groups into the labour market. The development partnerships are a very clever idea, even though they are experimental.I have two major concerns, however, about the development partnerships. They should be accessible to smaller groups, accessible for them to be able to devise, implement and monitor the programmes. We need to have a wide element of flexibility within the programme.I have also expressed concern in the past about the use of simple language and not using jargon, so that it becomes accessible to everyone. I am glad to see that this was accepted into the report, but I cannot agree with Amendment No 9 because that amendment really is not expressed in simple language at all.My second concern was that some discriminated groups have specific problems, for example, disabled people’s access to the workplace. Projects should also specifically address this problem. These concerns must be looked at while setting up the programmes. I certainly intend to do that with organisations and groups in my constituency in the West Midlands.I now turn to the controversial issue of asylum-seekers and refugees. Although I am not in favour of those refugees who have been refused refugee status and threatened with repatriation, having access to EQUAL, I would support the possibility of access for all other asylum-seekers and refugees. It is only fair and right for them to be able to access EQUAL in the same way as everyone else.
Mr President, it is important that not only Spaniards take part in this debate. The Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party welcomes the effort to improve relations between the EU and Latin America. It is incredibly important to develop cooperation further. We have much in common, not only from an historical perspective but also with a view to the future.As President Fox said in this Chamber not so long ago, many Latin American countries see the EU as a role model where human rights are concerned. The attitude to international conventions such as the Kyoto Protocol and to the International War Crimes Tribunal is considerably more constructive in Latin America than in North America. This is an important alliance to build on.The fight against organised crime and drugs also requires us to work together to a greater extent.Much remains to be done in the area of trade. The EU must open its markets to Latin America, especially when it comes to agriculture. We are always quick to criticise others for protectionism, often with good reason, but what is our food market if not protectionist?We Liberals would also like to highlight the issue of Cuba and regret that there was no room for it in Parliament’s joint resolution. We are pleased that a resolution on Cuba was adopted in Geneva. A significantly stronger commitment is required in this area than is currently the case. We agree that the US embargo must be lifted. We need to do more to strengthen the democrats in Cuba, however. At the moment, the opposition is more coordinated and more willing to enter into discussion than ever before. The referendum project, the Varela project, is worthy of all our support. The free libraries play an important role in providing Cubans with literature other than the collected speeches of Fidel Castro. Cuba is still a dictatorship, but there are democratic forces there which are strong and organised and which desperately need support from the EU and from Latin America. We must not let them down.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President of the Commission, Commissioner, I would like firstly to congratulate Mr von Wogau on the wonderful work he has done on this report. This report and the statements made about it by both the President of the Commission, Mr Prodi, and Commissioner Bolkestein, free up a process which has really prevented the speed that we would have liked in the negotiation of projects and the proposals for the creation of an internal market in the financial sector.In the little time remaining for me, I would like to focus on two aspects. Firstly, once we have freed up the process by means of the agreement that today’s debate represents, what we have to do is get to work. That is to say, we have to make the 42 directives envisaged a reality, by 2003 in the case of the capital market and by 2005 in the case of financial services.Secondly, I would like to point out that the European Parliament has never created obstacles when it has been asked for speed, urgency and cooperation in the implementation of projects and issues of such importance as the implementation of the euro or the European internal market itself, which are two very important successes of European construction. The Commission has not normally created obstacles, nor has Parliament, and if we have ever been faced with obstacles, it has been in the Council. In other words, everybody must fulfil their responsibilities.
Mr President, I want to talk about two matters on the summit agenda. The first is migration and asylum, the second is the Balkans.I am glad to say that yesterday the Commission gave a cool response to the British proposals to set up refugee detention centres in places like the Balkans because the difficulties of that would be considerable. I agree that there is a need to combat smuggling and trafficking through the orderly and managed arrival of refugees. Ideas like allowing asylum applications to be lodged in the home region, and then to have protected entry or resettlement schemes, are useful to pursue, but these must be complementary to the individual right to seek asylum, not replace it. We must not deny asylum seekers access to European Union territory.The Commission sensibly suggested looking at ways of allowing legal routes for migration. I warmly congratulate the Greek Presidency on its conference on managed migration in Athens last month, because the statistics are stunning: Europe is set to lose 15% of its population by 2050. The US population is going to increase by 40%. Our economies want migrants. The problem is that our societies do not and politicians have to lead an honest and brave debate on all the ramifications of immigration. We must at least agree – and I want the summit to do this – on an integration strategy, including better rights for long-term legal migrants.We must also remove asylum and immigration from the clutches of interior and public order ministers, because those ministers are preoccupied with internal security and repression. They do not have the proper mindset for discussing legal immigration.We have got ourselves into a mess and every repressive measure risks making matters worse. In fact hard borders may have increased the number of illegal immigrants and made them permanent because of the difficulty of going backwards and forwards. So to get order and control back into our asylum and immigration systems, we need three sound policies, not quick fixes and gimmicks: firstly, genuine sharing of responsibility, not shifting responsibility, but sharing both within the European Union and through partnership with countries of origin and local reception countries with substantial financial investment there; secondly, frontloading through investment in better-quality and therefore faster asylum decisions, as the Commission suggests; and lastly, access to legal immigration channels.I do not know the quid pro quo envisaged by the British Government to tempt the Balkan countries into having these refugee camps, but I would like to suggest one topic that requires active and early consideration with the Balkan countries and that is a review of visa policies. As the presidents of the SAP countries said at their summit on Monday, the process of integration could be assisted greatly by offering a genuine hope to their citizens that soon they will be able to travel freely in the whole of Europe. I hope we will look at that soon.To conclude, I want to talk about the International Criminal Court. Romania, and now Albania, have signed US immunity agreements and Bosnia is under pressure. If we are to have a fruitful stabilisation and association process, how come the European Union and associated countries cannot work together to stop the US getting these agreements? Can you assure us there is no intention for European Union states to sign bilateral immunity agreements and that you will not let this process undermine efforts to persuade the Balkan countries to cooperate with the International Criminal Tribunal in The Hague? I am sorry to say that other European Union countries have left the UK and the Netherlands holding the line on not ratifying the association agreements until Croatia cooperates. There has been no solidarity among European Union countries and that is disgraceful.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, to those of us who have closely followed the evolution and development of the ECIP instrument throughout its short but intense history, it seems that the best way to summarise Mr Dell'Alba’s report is to highlight the message contained in the amendments of the Committee on Development and Cooperation, since they recommend the continuation of this financial instrument because it has been the best vehicle for establishing and strengthening Europe’s business fabric in the countries involved and, consequently, for creating employment.Now that the agreement on free trade, political concertation and cooperation between the European Union and Mexico has just entered into force, it is a good time to remember that we should continue with this type of financial instrument which, in some cases, such as Mexico, has been used intensively and positively, and is ideally suited to strengthening commercial ties between particular blocks, such as the European Union and the countries involved. Otherwise, the European Union would no longer be acting in accordance with its cooperation and development commitment, not only in the case of the countries of Latin America, but also in the cases of Asia, the Mediterranean and South Africa.In short, we clearly support Mr Dell’Alba’s report, and we congratulate him on the clarity of his ideas when he deals with the need to continue in the future with the implementation of the ECIP, in my opinion, as a single instrument. We also hope that these ideas will be directed, after more than ten years of positive experience, towards making the bureaucratic process involved in the project’s implementation more flexible and rapid in order to allow for more efficient action. In my opinion, this requires a strengthening of human resources in the Commission’s offices in the countries involved.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the attainment of a real internal market for services will afford the small and medium-sized enterprises added incentive for innovation – as was already underlined in the debate, in fact. It will also improve the competitiveness of European industry and will provide more benefits to the consumers who will be offered a whole series of high-quality competitive services.I am therefore of the opinion that it is of crucial importance for the internal market strategy to build on the strength of the e-commerce directive and the principle of mutual recognition. Mutual recognition forms the keystone of the European Union and the European internal market, in particular. Mutual recognition is only possible if the consumer enjoys equivalent protection right across the Union. This means that harmonisation is only required if this equivalent protection does not exist. Furthermore, a business based in the Union is guaranteed completely free cross-border trade in services.I therefore believe that the report, as it has now been approved by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, after inserting, inter alia, a number of amendments which I myself tabled, reflects and supports the Commission’s balanced approach.Finally, I am delighted to find out that the Commission adopted a regulation on sales stimulation yesterday. This shows that the Commission is really serious about further developing the internal market. In the current economic climate, we cannot afford to lose momentum in the direction of a real internal market.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission proposal to the Council of 25 July 2001 on State aid to the coal industry has a certain number of good qualities and one slight defect.The first of the good qualities is the fact that it is essential. The second is that it really is an important step in the right direction for the coal industry. The slight defect is that it contains a certain number of inaccuracies which have not been removed at the committee stage.This proposal is essential because the previous arrangements will expire in July 2002, hence the need for a new regulation. Above all, it is essential because of the expiry of the ECSC Treaty, which is the legal basis of the previous arrangements governing aid to the coal industry. The restructuring of the coal industry in Europe has not been entirely completed, so there can be no question of not having a new regulation on these arrangements for State aid. This proposal is also a step in the right direction insofar as it makes provision for production aid to cease in 2007. In fact, I believe that it is inevitable and desirable to make provision for the cessation of this aid, since coal and steel products will be re-integrated into the common law of the Treaty on European Union following the expiry of the ECSC Treaty.My attention and the discussions in committee were concentrated on the revision, from my point of view, of this text, an important revision, because it consists of supporting the creation of what is known as an ‘indigenous primary energy base’ in order to preserve the European Union’s independence regarding this product.This creation is slightly surprising in a text which originally had only a technical purpose. In any case, it calls, and has called, for the following comments from me and from a certain number of other Members. Is Europe threatened if this indigenous primary energy base is not created? Is there any strategic interest in creating such a base? In other words, is coal strategic, and is indigenous coal production within certain limits strategic to the European Union?My reply to these two questions is negative. I believe, and the experts agree with me, that the world coal market is characterised by both great dispersion of supply and great stability of prices in the medium and long-term. The risk of shortages is quite small. In addition, there are a number of products which could claim strategic status, and therefore the replies obtained from the Commission have led me, I regret to say, to propose that this revision be stated separately in this text in order to deal with this problem. The period of validity of this regulation is set to end in 2010. I had proposed that it should end in 2007, for the sake of consistency, because that was the year, in the Commission proposal, for ending production aid. I regret to say that the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy did not agree with me, and my report was rejected.That being the case, I invite you to vote for this report on the original version of the Commission proposal because, despite its uncertainties, inaccuracies and obscurities, the proposed regulation is a step in the right direction, towards support for the restructuring of the coal industry, albeit for a limited period of time. I believe that this is how that support should be given, because it cannot continue indefinitely.(Applause)
Madam President, I should like to say on behalf of my group that we welcome the fact that this announcement was made first in this House and not to the media or elsewhere.
Mr President, in Denmark, Pernille Frahm and her party have led the way in the struggle against what they call “more Union”. They campaigned against Denmark’s joining the single currency, which we are to vote on in September, and they have been on the “no” side in four out of the five previous Danish referenda. That is why I am so pleased to read Pernille Frahm’s report in which she does not merely approve, but also requests, “more Union” in the form of mutual aid in connection with the burden which the influx of refugees imposes upon us. To cap it all, she wants more money transferred from the national Refugee Councils to their EU equivalent. I agree. If a large number of Albanian refugees arrives in Italy or a large number of Baltic refugees in Scandinavia, it is more sensible to spread the cost over the whole Union than compulsorily to distribute the refugees throughout the Union. The Refugee Fund makes it possible to help more refugees in the vicinity of their own countries where they can maintain links with their families and native cultures and continue to put pressure upon the tyrants who drove them from their homes. It is, therefore, also a good thing that the EU should be able to come up with aid in support of large influxes of refugees. We saw the need during the war in Kosovo. Just imagine if a great many more Kosovars could have been helped in neighbouring Macedonia and Albania. They would have much preferred this than to have been sent thousands of kilometres away to distant countries. If there are any who stand united on this issue, they are Pernille Frahm’s and my own party. If we could make Pernille Frahm rapporteur for European cooperation, too, then I am sure that we could agree about that issue as well.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in discussing this resolution we should be aware that Congo is larger than Europe. A country containing some 300 tribes, some of which live in total isolation, as the communications network is virtually non-existent. A country where both production and supply are achievable only with great difficulty. A country that is, moreover, wedged between Rwanda and Uganda. Rwanda, which meanwhile for its own security has moved its borders up to between 200 and 300 km into the Congolese interior. Uganda, which under the guise of combating rebel movements extended its influence to significant parts of Congo, up to and including Kisangani.The neutral position, which puts the Lusaka agreements first, involving the withdrawal of foreign troops and the establishment of partition areas both on the borders with Rwanda and Uganda and between the migrants themselves, is a passive first step that may lead to the stabilisation of the front and the belated return of the many refugees.Perhaps it will be useful if Europe, in contrast to the hesitant attitude of American policy towards Kabila, plays a key role. After all, Europe has an unbelievable potential impact because of its knowledge of the thinking behind events in Congo and can once more play a role to the benefit of the population, helping it do battle with desperate poverty, squalid health condition, starvation and epidemic disease. For example, without taking sides, Europe could support Belgian efforts to bring some stability to a population of over 55 million men and women in a land area larger than that of the enlarged Europe. In this way Europe would prove that it wants to respond to the priorities that the new President set out in his inaugural address. Europe must not remain passive in the face of developments in Central Africa.
Mr President, Commissioner, on behalf of theGroup I too would like to start by warmly thanking chairman Graefe zu Baringdorf and our consultative committee, which carried out very valuable work and demonstrated in an exemplary fashion that when one believes in what one does and makes strong efforts on its behalf, one will reach one's goals. Here, Parliament achieved what it wanted. This is a very important matter from the point of view of the farmers; these are the people who in their everyday work have to deal with these matters, and this information is very important to them.As Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf stated, in Germany open declaration was eliminated in 1979, while here in Finland it was eliminated in 1995. Now it is being reinstated. The only matter which generated debate and which deserves a moment's consideration is this list of permitted substances, and, in particular, the fact that the various ingredients change all the time. These include the byproducts of the food industry which Mr Kinderman mentioned; new feedingstuffs arrive all the time, while others disappear. For this reason, some sound common sense will be called for here. We must take thought and find out what is right and what is good, and only after that, on the basis of experience, must we go about implementing matters.Once again my warm thanks go to the consultative committee, which carried out splendid work from the viewpoint of Parliament and, particularly, from that of the farmers.
Mr President, firstly I would like to pay tribute to Mr Katiforis for his work for the Greek Presidency within the Convention. The European Council was quite right to resist the temptation to deconstruct the Convention's work. The result would certainly be greatly inferior.As far as the revision of Part III is concerned, I am prepared to turn myself into a technician, pure or not, for the final phase of the work. I quite agree with President Prodi that it is vital to extend the scope of qualified-majority voting as far as we can if the Council is in the future to be able to enjoy the capacity to take decisions.But what about Part IV concerning the revision and the entry-into-force procedures? The European Council was completely silent upon this point. Was it brought up and, if so, what was said? Would Mr Simitis agree with me that unless we can modify the future revision procedures we will be forever trapped in the dual lock of unanimity plus national ratification procedures – frequently protracted and problematical? Surely it is desirable that the Union avoids putting itself inside such a straitjacket.We must find a sufficiently flexible form of modifying the Constitutional settlement if we are to be able to move with the changing circumstances we will face in the years to come.(Applause)
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is a fact that in the European Union, across all sectors of the economy, and also in the world of the private consumer, there is great potential for boosting energy efficiency levels. It is therefore essential that an effective strategy be developed. It is the task of the European Commission to formulate proposals to improve building regulations, to promote the energy efficiency of electrical appliances, for which, among other things, standards must be laid down with regard to the standby function, and, last but not least, proposals for measures to adopt a Community policy for a sustainable transport system. In my opinion, the European Parliament also has to act as a model. Why, for example, can we not install solar panels in the European Parliament buildings, both here and in Brussels? After all, the energy generated would supply sufficient energy to operate the hundreds of computers in the European Parliament.Energy efficiency is not just about installing more efficient technology. It is, above all, a matter of behaviour patterns. Where the Member States are concerned, instead of getting bogged down with levy increases or the introduction of a CO2 levy, they should just focus on creating incentives for investments in energy efficiency, for example by reducing VAT rates on energy-saving appliances and services, or by reducing property tax for buildings which meet high energy-efficiency standards, and on granting special tax benefits for cogeneration, in particular. Such measures constitute a considerable encouragement to promote energy efficiency, and I believe that we must urge everyone to actually make this happen.
Mr President, when the present Commission took office in the autumn of 1999, all the Commissioners promised that it would be a case of turning over a new leaf. In future, the work would be driven by transparency and public scrutiny, and the mistakes of the Santer Commission would not be repeated. A very great deal of the general debate in 1999 was about transparency and public scrutiny. Quite a few of us voted for making the EU more open. Openness and public access to official records are necessary elements of a democratic and efficient administration, and if people can follow the decision-making process in the EU’s machinery, then there will also be an increase in confidence. We also know that there is a crystal-clear connection between a high level of transparency and a low level of corruption in an administration.The Regulation we are voting on tomorrow is a compromise between Parliament and countries in the Council of Ministers which are sympathetic towards transparency. It is a step forwards in many ways. It provides the people of Europe with unifying legislation concerning the way in which they are to obtain access to documents. It lays down important principles, a fact which quite a few of my fellow MEPs have touched upon.However, we Liberals are also sorry to see that it is deficient in a great many ways. It contains a rather ambiguous clause concerning what are called sensitive documents that are to be dealt with under a separate system. This is an unfortunate rule which may be interpreted arbitrarily.What is more, there is a certain lack of clarity as to how the Regulation would apply in relation to national law if conflicts were to arise. In some Member States, including Sweden and the Netherlands, there are more far-reaching rules governing access to documents. In Sweden, the tradition of transparency goes back to my fellow Liberal Party member, Anders Chydenius in 1766. What happens if a document is secret in Brussels but in the public domain in Stockholm? The Government and Swedish Prime Minister have said that, in a case like that, Swedish law applies, but can that be relied upon?The Presidency bears considerable responsibility, namely to ensure both that Dutch legislation and, above all, the Swedish Constitution are not undermined and that no self-censorship is practised by Swedish authorities either.There is, of course, an obvious fear in the Commission and certain Member States that people will be given too much information. Those of us who believe in transparency must constantly fight to demonstrate that the opposite is the case. Public scrutiny is not dangerous. Rather, it is democratic and efficient.Theviews this Regulation as a compromise involving a certain amount of progress but also containing certain shortcomings. We shall vote in favour of it tomorrow as a first step on the long journey ahead of us in terms of opening the institutions of the EU up to the people. Further efforts are required in this regard, and we shall test the limits of the legislation. We shall also take the lead in establishing still better rules in a couple of years’ time for, in spite of everything, transparency has the future on its side.
It is right that Parliament should assert the need for research into the next generation Internet, considering the huge capabilities that this tool can provide for citizens and firms, especially in a Europe that needs to consolidate its presence on the Web. The proposal for a resolution, which I support, must, in addition, stress certain points, which will make it possible to better define a future scenario which, considering that the sector evolves extremely rapidly, also changes extremely rapidly and includes certain discoveries that demand abrupt changes and rethinks. However, with regard to bandwidth, it is appropriate to study the possible role in the future of the Internet of the use of satellites for two-way telecommunication as well and the use of terminals for DTT. Those who are concerned, for example, with mountain regions know that some technologies lend themselves better to use in isolated areas, where technologies such as cable are difficult, and that the new technologies are absolutely crucial to avoid marginalisation in places where it would be even more serious than elsewhere.There are many areas to cover, ranging from the widespread local use of microwave systems to interactive 'broadband' services, from the need to make the Internet more user-friendly by making it possible to access it without a computer, to the aspects of network security, which have already been studied on a number of occasions.The great caution needed is clear. Evidence of this is, for example, the explosion, which has already happened in the United States but also in some European countries as well, of the myth that the dot com market will develop exponentially.Then there is the sensitive but key subject of standards to regulate the Web, intended not to restrict free space but to prevent abuse and improper or even vandalistic use. Finally, it must be remembered that the Internet must combine the globalisation process, which is an inherent part of its development, with the need for multimedia services at regional and local levels, thus providing that proximity and closeness to the citizen that is a genuine asset and must be enhanced.
Mr President, Mr Maat’s report is excellent and summarises the legitimate and powerful criticism that has to be directed, in the first place, against the Council of Ministers and the Member States. It is disgraceful that those of us in a civilised and cultivated part of the world, calling itself Europe, should treat animals in the way we do. Moreover, no one can convince me that it is economically necessary. Presumably, it is economic madness.I want first of all to deal with Paragraph 14. Anyone who drives when drunk loses his driving licence immediately. How can a driver arrive with a load including dead animals and yet retain both his driving licence and his licence to transport animals? That is absurd!Paragraph 20 is about ending the payment of export refunds in respect of live animals. That is a first small step able, in actual fact, to be taken by the EU.
This report and the Commission communication to which it responds makes two major contributions to progress in seeking to reduce sexual exploitation of children through so-called sex tourism.The first is in contributing to the construction of an international human rights community: in all kinds of ways there has been increasing recognition that Europe must promote international standards of respect for human rights, for instance in the international criminal tribunals on Former Yugoslavia and Rwanda, the agreement on the statute of the international criminal court, the Pinochet case, the intervention in Kosovo to stop ethnic cleansing – all these things have been developing momentum.Saying that we will not allow our citizens to sexually exploit children abroad fits into that pattern, and the part of Mrs Klamt’s report that talks of how we must insist that double standards are unacceptable is very well put and particularly valuable. It is not acceptable that our citizens should behave abroad in a way that they would not behave at home.Secondly, this report makes a contribution to police and judicial cooperation in the European Union. This is a strong example where those Euro-sceptics who resist cooperation in this field are wrong. It is only by joint across-the-board action that we can tackle this issue, not least by agreeing to extra-territorial application of criminal laws.Approximation and mutual recognition of national criminal provisions, which is not the same as harmonisation, will be of the utmost utility, as will cooperation through police forces and Europol, insisting all the time, as the Parliament does, on adequate parliamentary and judicial scrutiny. So I congratulate Mrs Klamt for a very valuable report and I hope it will continue to be built on in future.
The ayatollahs on the Council of Guardians are doing everything they can to hold on to their religious, political and economic power. Their exclusive power to interpret the Koran is constantly being abused for political ends. They block everything that does not appeal to them or that could impinge on their own position of power. They have now vetoed more than a third of the laws adopted by the parliament. More than 2 500 reform-minded candidates have now been excluded from the elections, including around 80 sitting MPs. Whilst large sectors of society, young people in particular, want modernisation and freedom, the hard core in power is clinging to medieval ideas and repressive practices. The younger generation constitutes the vast majority of the population in Iran. In addition, even many former revolutionaries have become disillusioned by the clergy’s abuse of power. President Khatami himself calls the exclusion of candidates a threat to the nation and the system. The conflict between reformers and conservative clergymen is increasingly coming to a head. If nothing is done about it, it seems that it is only a matter of time before the situation boils over, with everything that entails. The human rights and democratic situation in Iran is still extremely worrying. Unless substantial improvements are made, the European Union will not be able to form a partnership. It is highly debatable whether it is actually still advisable to continue to negotiate. What is Commissioner Patten’s opinion on this? Does he still see prospects for partnership with Iran now that the situation is deteriorating so dramatically? Nor is the human rights dialogue with Iran of any great account, as I know from personal experience. It will not make things any better if the parliamentary elections turn out to be a farce. The European Union must not lend itself to a dialogue that is used as a pretext for not actually carrying out any reforms. Iran is a potentially rich country with an ancient civilisation, and has the potential to play an extremely important, constructive role in the region. It will not become a new civilisation, however, whilst the ayatollahs continue to abuse their unrestricted power, but will instead be doomed to remain an international pariah.
I would also like to join in congratulating the rapporteur on an excellent job well done and make two points which have been mentioned by others before.Firstly, the value of strong regulatory authorities. It is quite clear from the experience in the fifteen still separate markets that strong regulatory bodies help market access for smaller players, protect the interests of consumers and force the pace of large monopoly-providers which might otherwise feel free to take a more leisurely pace. Secondly, the value of a timetable. It was a pity that the Lisbon conclusions did not call for a timetable. Experience in other areas such as telecom shows that Member States respond better to this incentive and I hope that the Commission will elaborate a specific timetable for liberalization in the months to come.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my group, I would like to congratulate Gerhard Schmid on his excellent report. The reports reaches the conclusion that a global communications interception system exists within the framework of the UKUSA Agreement, that this system is definitely known as Echelon, that it is used to intercept private business, and not military, communications, that the system’s technical capabilities are probably not nearly as extensive as some have assumed, but that prevention to some extent is necessary.In spite of what some minority voices say, Mr Schmid was not more preoccupied with industrial espionage than with individual monitoring. He is proposing no less than eight specific measures to enhance the protection of citizens’ rights within the framework of various international treaties, and he calls upon the Member States and the Council to adopt at least seven specific national legislative measures to protect citizens. Of course, some specific measures are proposed to assist businesses, but these are more vague and their scope is less extensive than the measures on individual monitoring.As a citizen of a country whose intelligence service is certainly very small-scale compared to those of its larger neighbours or allies, I still believe that it is misleading and futile to suggest abolishing the secret services. They exist and they will continue to exist. We should, therefore, draw political conclusions and seek solutions at this level – we should monitor the activities of these services, subject them to legal and parliamentary scrutiny, adopt uniform rules to protect citizens at the highest national level and apply this throughout the European Union. The proposals in paragraphs 16 and 17 of the resolution must also be seen from this perspective. With the strengthening of European security and defence policy and the EU’s increasing involvement in crisis prevention and management, collaboration amongst intelligence services is growing and the EU will eventually have to have an autonomous European intelligence capability. This can only be achieved if there is a system for democratic monitoring.With regard to Echelon, the resolution specifically calls upon Germany and the United Kingdom to make authorisation of communications interception operations by US intelligence services on their territory conditional on their compliance with the European Convention on Human Rights and judgments of the European Court of Human Rights.Far from having wanted to create repeated diversions, Mr Schmid has dotted the i’s and crossed the t’s, he has more than fulfilled the mandate bestowed upon him by the Temporary Committee on Echelon and he has provided Parliament with a tool to enable us to continue the work he has done in the interests of protecting citizens.(Applause)
On behalf of the, I would also like to extend our thanks and congratulations to the Council and Commission, especially to Commissioner Lamy. In our view, without the effective work of the Commissioner and the Council, in cooperation with Parliament, the new round would never have been proposed, let alone launched, and for that we are grateful. It seems to us that the summit at Doha represented the coming together of two themes or two trends within the WTO.The first theme is the first concerted attempt to accommodate the needs and legitimate complaints of developing countries. We have referred already to the TRIPS Agreement, the text on implementation, US movement on anti-dumping, a chink of light in the European position on agriculture – these to us are very significant developments.The second theme or trend is that the talks extended well beyond traditional market access preoccupations and moved towards the development of new rules, competition, investment and, above all, the environment. That again seems to us to be a very welcome development and we are very pleased to see that a balance seems to have been struck – a sensible and workable balance between the needs of developing countries and the need to develop new rules within the World Trade Organisation. Some have suggested – I think my Green friends and other critics of the WTO – that somehow these two things are incompatible with each other and that developing new rules on the WTO is anathema to the interests of the developing countries. We found it particularly bizarre that Green Members of this House and Green campaigners rejected talks on the environment within the WTO, in the name of the developing countries. To us, there is no trade-off between sustainable multilateral environmental disciplines and multilateral attempts at poverty alleviation.Now is the time for delivery. Some of the news over the last few days is a little mixed, particularly from the United States, over the concessions which were extracted from the Administration in the fast-track debate and the debate on trade and steel in Washington. We must keep the pressure up to make sure that the momentum that was established in Doha is maintained in the years ahead and we will certainly strive to do so.(Applause)
Mr President, yesterday evening, we asked Parliament’s services to regard Amendment No 12, which the Group of thetabled in an attempt to bring about equal treatment, as an addition. We are not opposed to equal treatment, except where it takes precedence over the reduction of administrative burdens for businesses, as the two are completely unrelated. No doubt this is a ruse to remove this reduction from the text. I look forward to hearing whether Mr Miller is going to see this as complementary. If that is not possible, then I see it as a ruse to delete from the text the reduction of administrative burdens on businesses, which the Socialists, possibly, do not want it to include.
Madam President, many thanks to my colleague, Mr Gasòliba i Böhm, for an excellent report which will be of great help in the ongoing referendum campaign in my country. Clearly, the introduction of the euro has been very successful. We have finally obtained a practical common European symbol. The euro is already the world’s second largest currency. It has strengthened European identity and bound the twelve countries together. Even if economic development is shaky, the euro has already shown positive economic advantages, strengthened trade and increased investments for the eurozone countries.One of the aspects, which was also addressed by Mr Berenguer Fuster and which has been discussed in connection with the introduction of the euro, is that of whether there have been price rises and, if so, unfair ones. Eurostat’s statistics clearly show that there was a very small, one-off effect of between 0.1 and 0.2% upon the introduction of the euro. Within some sectors of the economy, or in certain industries, there were, however, significant price rises, particularly in certain countries. The overall effect for those inhabiting the eurozone has, however, been very small. It is good that we should now take up this issue and ask the Commission to investigate it further. One thing we have found is that pro-active consumers and two-currency price labelling have prevented underhand price rises. Let us not, however, be deceived into thinking that the price rises were higher than they in actual fact were, and let us not make use of that argument in debates, either.The big advantage of the euro is, however, that it has provided economic stability in politically and economically very difficult times. In spite of great unrest in the world, partly due to the Iraq war, European currencies have not tossed around on a stormy monetary sea, as in actual fact happened in the nineties. The euro has provided stability and security. That is a fact that should be mentioned more often. This should be emphasised in the discussion of the euro’s advantages and disadvantages, particularly in those EU countries that at present enjoy the stability of the euro without participating fully in the cooperation and so without accepting full responsibility, either.
Mr President, Commissioner, the European Parliament is right to be concerned, and this is surely an understatement, by the fact that the European Patent Office has granted a patent to the University of Edinburgh. We are simply conveying the concerns, fears and confusion felt by the general public. However, the European Parliament has already clearly formulated its position on this delicate matter. I would draw your attention to two elements.Firstly, there is the biotechnology directive. As you are aware, a clear position was taken up in this directive after long, searching and, on occasions, heated discussion, during which all stances, opinions and interests were voiced, following which the said directive received Parliament’s definitive approval at second reading in 1998. Incidentally, this was also an issue where, perhaps for the first time, Parliament showed what it was capable of and truly stood on its authority. The outcome is a balanced text that affords science the opportunity to make progress, but in the interests and service of humanity. A number of items are unequivocally excluded from patenting in this directive, such as the human body, for example, or parts thereof at all stages of development, as per Article 3, and the cloning of human beings, as per Article 9.Therefore, it is clear that this registered patent cannot go through. That is also why Parliament is well advised to react firmly. It is for these reasons that not only will the  Group endorse the motion, it will also support Amendments Nos 1, 3, 6, 8 and 9, because they clearly reinforce the message conveyed by the directive in question.Secondly, the European Parliament has already pointed out on a number of occasions that we are lacking a uniform European patent, as it has repeatedly condemned the fact that there are gaps in European patent legislation. The situation has reared its head again, as you will see from paragraph 5 of the draft resolution. I refer to the amendment that I submitted and that was unanimously approved by the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, relating to the very issue of our need for a European patent. This amendment also pushes for a European patent of this kind to be drafted swiftly, attempts to do so having failed hitherto on account of the costs associated with the translation problem. Just imagine that! Well, we will be able to “avoid regrettable misunderstandings”, as the European Patent Office would put it, once we have found a definitive solution to the problems attending European patent law, and have cleared such misunderstandings up, because, at the end of the day, prevention is still better than cure.
Mr President, one of the crucial principles of a properly functioning democratic society is freedom of expression and access to information. In this Chamber, we have again and again emphasised the importance of openness and transparency. Citizens must have access to information affecting their lives so that they can take part in the democratic debate and make their choices.The media have a central role to play in this process. If they do not operate properly, then neither does democracy. At present, there are media trends that give rise to concern. The consolidation we have witnessed may lead to less pluralism in the media. We combat monopolies because they reduce the supply of goods, with a consequent decrease in prosperity, and the same applies to the media market. Monopolies undermine democratic pluralism and lead to a decrease in democratic prosperity. Previously, party political media such as newspapers were only able to exercise political criticism within their own medium. They had no control over what other media put out. The threat we face today is one of potentially powerful consolidation, which may mean certain points of view not being represented in any medium.As legislators elected by the people, we are faced with striking a sensitive balance. To what means can we have recourse to ensure free and diverse media without at the same time setting aside another cardinal principle of a democratic society – that of the distribution of power. We want to set up basic rules that guarantee a level playing field without tampering with the actual content of the media. We need, in this Assembly, to comply with our democratic responsibility and make sure that the media comply with theirs.
It is indeed welcome of course that the interinstitutional trauma of the last few months is now drawing to a close and good that normal business is about to resume. But, as has been said before by many speakers, we must understand the way in which the interinstitutional crisis of the last few months has altered in some fundamental way the relationship between our two institutions.It is fair to say that in the past there was a traditional view that the European Parliament and the European Commission should operate in an almost permanent state of collusion to take on the vested interests of Member States and so promote European integration. This is now an outdated view which has been bypassed by recent events.From now on we should perhaps both accept and welcome a permanent creative tension between our two institutions – that, after all, is the heart of a mature parliamentary democracy. This requires changes not only in the European Commission with which we are all familiar, but also changes in the European Parliament itself. Indeed, I hope that Parliament will take this opportunity to reform our own outdated procedures and practices including the financial provisions for MEPs.Unless we, as parliamentarians, examine ourselves with the same forensic attention with which we examine other institutions we will find it difficult to reverse the shocking voter apathy which was seen in so many parts of Europe in the elections in June. Indeed, it is not an exaggeration to say that voter indifference remains the greatest long-term threat to the European Union as a whole and perhaps to this Parliament in particular. Thus our overwhelming priority should be to re-engage the disenchanted voter: a reformed European Commission, a reformed European Parliament, interacting in a robust but mature manner, is the only way in which we have any real hope of doing so.
Three points: first of all on this important issue of SMP. We have made a stab at trying to enhance and improve the text but I am concerned, as was Mr Harbour, that we may actually have complicated matters, so whilst I feel that we have added a menu of additional concepts, a mélange, a pot-pourri of new tools to deploy under the title of SMP, I wonder whether we should perhaps be a little more bold in the second reading and perhaps think of drawing back where we consider, on reflection, those new concepts might actually be adding to confusion rather than diminishing confusion.Second point: NRAs. This is really a point I would like to address to the Council, not that there is much point in doing it here this evening, but the Member States cannot have it both ways. They cannot have their cake and eat it. They cannot wish to see a vibrant pan-European telecoms market established and yet not have any meaningful criteria attached to the way in which NRAs operate. That is an unsustainable position and, politically, we should push the Member States harder and harder on this. There need to be clear criteria of independence and autonomy and proper resourcing which we need to really push upon the Member States, and not be swayed by their slightly misleading claims that it is all to do with subsidiarity and therefore none of our business.Finally, on the all-important Article 6 of the Paasilinna report and the vexed Amendment No 33, which Mrs Niebler spoke about earlier, we should perhaps have another look at it in second reading. I am not sure if you have the balance right. I am clear at this stage – and my group will vote against it – that those provisions should not cover ‘must carry’ provisions and we will be voting against that section of that amendment tomorrow.Finally, I wonder whether as legislators we really do make good telecoms junkies, to quote Mel Read. I just leave that as a question mark.
Madam President, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, I must indicate my complete and categorical condemnation of the terrorist attack on 22 February in Vitoria which took the lives of theMP and spokesman in the Basque parliament, Fernando Buesa, and his bodyguard, Jorge Díez.In a country governed by the rule of law and which is a member of the European Union, it should be possible for all ideas and options to be defended, provided that this occurs democratically and with respect for the rights of the individual and the principles and values of justice, freedom and economic and social progress on which the Union is based. The transgression of these principles is simply not acceptable, as clearly indicated in the Treaties.There is no justification in our society for terrorist acts such as the one which took the lives of Fernando Buesa and Jorge Díez, particularly when the former was a freely elected representative of the Basque people.We pray that these are the last victims in a process which, as you said, Madam President, has seen much barbarism. We pray that a way forward can be found which will allow the Basque people to live together in peace.(Applause)
Mr President, Commissioner, Mr Lemierre, may I begin by congratulating Mr Markov on a sterling report. The EBRD has been, and will be, of great importance to the development of former Communist Europe. For many of the countries, the door is now open to membership of the EU. This is obviously the best way for them to secure a better social and economic future. There are, however, still many countries that are, and will be, outside the EU’s internal market. If the gulfs between countries and peoples are not to increase further, the EBRD’s efforts are perhaps needed now more than ever.It is not easy to transform Communist planned economies that have sucked the life out of societies and people and introduce a market economy philosophy. We can now see the huge costs for the former GDR. I am particularly pleased that the Markov report emphasises free competition and the opportunities provided by the market and highlights, for example, the great importance of small companies to an affluent society.We Liberals have especially wanted to emphasise a matter also addressed by Mr Purvis, to the effect that the EBRD must step up its efforts in the EU’s new border countries, for example in Moldova and Ukraine. Obviously, this must also be done in Russia where the trend is, in spite of everything, in the right direction. That the former Soviet empire and its inhabitants should acquire a more secure economic foundation is, of course, of the greatest interest to us within the EU in terms of economics, security policy and also straightforward politics. That is apparent from an interesting article in today’s Financial Times, quoting Mr Lemierre.We also proposed more emphasis on projects that support democratic development. When it comes to Belarus, which is perhaps the worst remnant of the old Soviet period and which is without democracy, the EBRD should seek cooperation partners within non-governmental organisations. Human rights must always be guaranteed. It is therefore good that the EBRD should freeze assets and investments when human rights are threatened. Mr Purvis mentioned the Balkans and Serbia. There too, I believe that the EBRD’s efforts are especially important in a situation in which democracy is very shaky and needs support.I also believe it is important to emphasise that the EBRD should be managed in a professional and efficient way. The way in which it is organised must therefore be continually monitored, and unnecessary and costly bureaucracy prevented. We in the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party support Amendments Nos 2 and 4, just as Mr Purvis does, but also parts of Amendment No 5.I want to conclude by saying that a number of the amendments concern the development of nuclear power. This is, in my opinion, a source of energy that is clean and reduces the increasing greenhouse effect. It reduces the risks of climate change if it is safe and properly managed. I wonder therefore what thehave against it.
Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to start by congratulating the rapporteur. I have a feeling that these kinds of topic, and this report, are right up his street, and I would almost go so far as to say that it is not a coincidence that this sitting is so well attended this evening.The proposal under discussion is a direct result of the report by the Committee of Independent Experts. An internal control service is to be set up. Yet, my group feels it is too early at this stage to make a final decision on centralised ex ante control or decentralised ex ante control within the Directorates-General themselves. We need to give this some more thought and weigh up the pros and cons very carefully. I also believe that, as far as this is concerned, we need the advice from the European Court of Auditors. We cannot make a decision until we have the proposal on the new financial regulations, and within the framework of the discussion on these new regulations, a number of aspects will need to be laid down definitively.We will be backing all amendments which help clarify the division between financial control and internal audits, as currently proposed. We are also in favour of providing information more effectively. In our view, there is one note of discord in the report, although this is not the view of the entire group, and that is the question: should internal control only be set up in respect of the Commission, the Council and Parliament, or should it also extend to smaller institutions? In my opinion, it should also apply to smaller institutions. This may not be practical – it is indeed the case that only a few people deal with financial control in those institutions, but the principle that the person who gives ex ante approval also self-assesses after the event is wrong. These two activities should always remain separate. This also applies to smaller institutions even though they have fewer staff. If we lay something down for large institutions, the neutrality principle proposed by the Committee of Independent Experts should then apply across the board. I am not in favour of making any exceptions to this rule.Otherwise, my group is able to support all the rapporteur’s amendments, especially those which stipulate that annual progress reports should be compiled. Public opinion is so sensitive in this area that I feel this Parliament should deal with this topic every year, and not only at the discharge stage. It should also deal with the question of how matters can be improved in terms of control, and, in the light of public opinion, we cannot do enough about this.
Mr President, an error no doubt arose in translation.The original text reads ‘Macedonia’, but the Group of thehas tabled a note about extending this to ‘The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia’. That is not a linguistic, but a political, change.We wish the vote to apply to what appears in the current text, which is to say ‘Macedonia’ only.
Mr President, there is indeed a crisis of succession in farming as Mr Parish with his expertise as a farmer knows well.If this crisis is particularly acute in Mr Parish's own Member State, it is the direct result of policies pursued by UK governments over the past twenty years, and to overcome it the United Kingdom must review the implications of the Fontainbleau Agreement for its contribution to European Union finances. This has been disastrous for farming. Moreover, the rapporteur, a member of the Conservative Party, must work within his own party to secure support for his proposals in the House of Commons.In countries where less than 10% of the population now lives in rural areas, it is too easy for governments to sideline the needs of these areas, and the message from this debate must be that they do so at the peril of their countries.
Mr President, first I would like to heartily congratulate and thank the budget’s main rapporteur, Mr Costa Neves, with regard to his excellent draft budget and his constructive cooperation. Likewise, I wish to thank the second budget rapporteur, Kathalijne Buitenweg, and also, in particular, the Chairman of the Committee on Budgets, Terrence Wynn, for his skilful and constructive leadership of the Committee.The budget for 2002 now being debated is a moderate and disciplined one. Appropriations have grown by just 2%, which is clearly below the figure for the financial perspectives. The European Parliament has shown an enormous sense of responsibility, which our group values highly. This budget is a considerable improvement on the Council’s first proposal. The agricultural budget is realistic. There are more funds available to cover outstanding commitments under categories 2 to 4, and there is a common call to use them to clear arrears. The reform of the Commission proceeds, and any expenditure that should not in fact arise, has been cut. We particularly appreciate the fact that no negative reserve, that is to say, no uncovered appropriation, has been adopted.In the first reading of the budget some cuts were made to external actions, such as the western Balkans CARDS programme. Now we have been able to prevent most of these cuts. A total of 206.4 million euros is being proposed for the Balkans. Furthermore, the CARDS programme had already been given 63 million euros out of this year’s budget transfers, so all in all the programme is returning to what was proposed in the Council’s draft budget. This was immensely important for my group. For the Commission’s reform 317 posts are being reserved, which guarantees that the reform will proceed. Of these, 105 are in reserve, and our group hopes that at least the majority of them may still be released. A flexible instrument had to be adopted once again this year. A compromise decision was reached on its use, according to which Spain and Portugal will see the structure of their fisheries fleets revitalised with the aid of 170 million euros, plus another 27 million in 2003. Thirty million euros are to be spent on solving border problems associated with new Member States, with a further 15 million being spent on this next year. Our group supports all these decisions.
Mr President, on page 27 of the annex to the Minutes my vote is recorded as having been cast in favour of Amendment No 20 to the Morillon report. I do not subscribe to the views of that amendment and I would wish that my vote be recorded as having been cast against it.
I am very aware that the country holding the presidency does not control the agenda entirely itself. However, initiatives can be taken in the matter of work in progress. The Commission can also, so to speak, be pressed to produce proposals faster and more effectively.In this context, I would like us to review the agricultural policy as such. The export subsidies make the very worst transportation profitable. There are many other subsidy systems that favour bad management of resources and the neglect of animals. I know that there are legislative shortcomings, but it is better to force through the observance of laws that already exist than to wait for additional new laws.
Mr President, this regulation cannot be postponed any longer, and I fully support the stricter timetable that the European Parliament is proposing in the amendments to the Commission’s proposal. Consumers require information about where the animal was born, bred and slaughtered, and cattle should be identified and registered so that their traceability can be guaranteed. The Commission must be far more vigorous than it has been so far in putting the screws on those countries which have not established databases, so ensuring that the countries concerned become fully operational in this respect. The issue is also one of credibility when it comes to implementing joint resolutions in all Member States. It is also about citizens’ confidence and belief that food quality is everything it should be. A bit of drive needs to be shown, and no exceptions should be made in the case of cattle which graze in the mountains. Where registration is required, what, in any case, is the difference between cattle which graze in the mountains and those which graze in valleys or in fields? I am in favour of beef being labelled with the name of the country or countries it comes from and I am strongly against introducing a common EU label from which consumers cannot see which countries are involved. The purpose of the regulation in question must be to achieve a situation in which consumers have confidence in meat from all EU countries. Until this is a reality, consumers need to know precisely which country their meat comes from. I have tabled an amendment to the effect that the slaughterhouse’s authorisation number should not be shown on the label. In this way, I wished to ensure that small and medium-sized slaughterhouses could continue to supply meat to butchers. The authorisation number does not provide the consumer with any useful information and has no bearing upon traceability.
Mr President, firstly I should like to apologise for not participating in the debate earlier on account of some sad events with my stagiaire. I am satisfied that we are finally taking the initiative and discussing Moldova. Thetried to do this back in January.Everything that Mrs Schröder said is true. We have before us a very difficult situation which could lead to developments similar to those in Belarus. We must be clear-sighted and see that it is Vladimir Voranin who has stopped economic reforms. These events have led to a suspension of funding from the international institutions.We know the means used to turn Moldova eastwards and to create problems with Romania. For instance the Moldovan Government refused to allow the people to set up an Orthodox community attached to the Romanian Orthodox Church. This has been condemned as contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights. Transdniestria does not need mentioning further; we know about it and the present attitude of the government is not helping to solve the problem there.The Christian Democrat party has been mentioned. What has been said over the last few days in the Russian Duma, which has accused Romania of interference, is worrying. What has been said in the Russian Duma is not accurate. We now have a situation where a Romanian diplomat has been declared persona non grata. This is creating a good deal of tension.Parliament and the Commission need to focus much more on Moldova for the reasons mentioned by Mrs Schröder. We must avoid being confronted with a new Belarus. We need intelligent sanctions, intelligent measures, because it is such a poor country. Those of you who have been to that country know that the children in Moldova are the worst off in Europe.
What could be more important than humanitarian emergency aid? In other words, saving the lives of numerous human beings by taking swift and effective action, making funds immediately available and ensuring that they are well-spent, whilst eliminating political deliberations and bureaucratic rigmarole. Needless to say, the European Union has its work cut out in this respect. More to the point, it can, and must, take a leading role in this field in view of the added value it offers compared with the individual States. ECHO must become the central coordination platform for all Member States. It must be equipped to this end, so that it can operate to best advantage, for this is about life and death and so only the very best is good enough.This will entail extending and improving the staffing capacity, decentralising competences, formulating quantifiable objectives, systematic monitoring of the results, continuing to learn from past mistakes, and above all, improving coordination with the other offices of the Commission and the Member States.In order to mobilise the necessary public support for emergency aid, it would be a good idea to give greater publicity to what Europe does and why. Moreover, increased transparency would create an additional incentive to meet the highest demands. The relationship between emergency aid, reconstruction and development is the same as that between the seed, the stems, and the leaves of a plant; one evolves naturally from the other. And what this means in terms of ECHO, which is the seed, is that although it does not have to handle all the reconstruction work itself, it does have to make all the necessary preparations. When it comes to the reconstruction and development phases, the Commission needs to bring its own staffing levels up to standard with all haste, and drastically reduce the procedures. A number of speakers have already said as much this evening. Only then will Europe be able to make a virtue of need.
Mr President, from G8 to recreational craft, and from recreational craft to uprooted people. That is what you might call a range of subjects. There are certainly sound reasons for having such a range, without my explaining in more detail what I mean. Until I heard Commissioner Liikanen commenting on recreational craft, I was quite convinced that it was these that would win the debate in the press. After hearing his contribution, however, I am, in spite of everything, a little less certain of that. He did in fact manage to talk the subject down.In the previous debate on the G8 Summit, we of course discussed the usefulness of the global meetings. As Commissioner Patten strongly emphasised, these are important, but it is just as important that these meetings should be followed up, and the present debate might well be said to be an example of such follow-up. It is also an example of how – one might almost say – tediously practical the work of democracy also is and of how it is therefore difficult for democracy to compete with the more violent and spectacular global demonstrations. Nonetheless, this work is absolutely essential.The proposal no doubt also emphasises very clearly, however, that the only really effective method we have in this context is effective prevention, and I should like to have seen this emphasised a little more. The proposal also shows – and I think this is a good thing – the need to involve the NGOs in the work. Without them, success will elude us. I shall therefore just conclude by saying that – like the previous speaker, Mr Blak – I too think it is heart-breaking to see the developments in Afghanistan. I can clearly remember the first time I heard about them on the radio. Developments there increasingly cause one to despair, as does the fact that the international community has so few opportunities for intervening in time.
I also welcome the White Paper. But do you envisage that the Food Safety Agency will have enough teeth to prevent something like the beef war that we have had and France's refusal to lift the ban? You mentioned the Commission being able to withhold grants and subsidies from countries who are acting in the way that France is acting. Would you also propose that the Commission could give interim payments for instance, similar to the one that the British farmers are asking for at the moment?
Mr President, just to add to that comment, the spokesman for Brit Air, the subsidiary of Air France which operated the flight, opined in The Times newspaper last week that even if the judgement against the Ryanair subsidy was confirmed, they might not re-establish the flight to Strasbourg, since they might find more profitable routes. This led me to write a letter that The Times printed, saying the European taxpayer would find it more profitable not to subsidise this EUR 169 million a year travelling circus to Strasbourg at all.(Applause)
Mr President, the timeliness of this debate is beyond dispute. The recent rise of anti-immigrant sentiment in France and the Netherlands shows what happens when governments fail to respond to the challenge of immigration. We know that, quite apart from the valuable contribution which immigrants bring to our societies in terms of increased cultural diversity, there are sound economic reasons for a policy of managed immigration, such as meeting labour shortages and funding our creaking pension systems. Indeed, our prosperity will depend on immigration. The question therefore is: what policy should we adopt to make immigration politically acceptable?What we must not do, as too manygovernments have done, is to bury our heads in the sand and refuse to address the challenge. It is in large part the failure of EU governments to police our borders, to tackle discrimination and xenophobia, and to integrate immigrants harmoniously into our societies that has led to this impasse. No wonder public concern continues to grow.The Liberal Democrat approach would be to open the front door a little, by providing legal avenues for immigration, in order better to close the back door to illegal immigration. This approach has been successfully pioneered by the Canadian Government, and is reflected in the European Commission's proposals for a common immigration policy. It is one we would do well to consider.A policy of managed legal immigration, co-ordinated among Member States, does not mean a free-for-all. Incentives to immigrants to settle more evenly across their host countries would help. A policy which balances rights and duties, so that those newly arriving understand that they can work in their host country and enjoy free movement in the Union and other benefits of EU citizenship, would be helpful too. But they must also understand the need to make an effort to integrate and to live by the rules of the society they join. It is nonsensical political correctness to dismiss any requirement that immigrants should learn the language of their host country. Moreover, proper support for integration must be provided and we must combat discrimination and racism wherever it is found. In this regard, I would pay tribute to the work of the European Union Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia, and I commend to political parties the Charter of Political Parties for a non-racist society.We also need to invest more in our justice systems and the enforcement of legal judgments – we can only expect immigrants to respect core values if we too ensure that these values are respected fully by existing society.A policy of managed immigration requires tough action to control the Union's external borders and I therefore congratulate the Commission for its initiative on a common border guard corps. We also need to do more to help the poor and dispossessed, as the Commissioner said, in their countries of origin, so that they do not have to resort in desperation to criminal gangs of people-smugglers. Most people do not want to up sticks and move elsewhere, so helping to relieve the pressure of illegal immigration is yet another argument, if one were needed, for promoting global free trade and making progress towards the UN target of 0.7% of GDP for development aid.As far as asylum policy is concerned, here again the Liberal Democrat Group is broadly supportive of the Commission's proposals and often sceptical of actions proposed in Council.In conclusion, we believe that there is both a moral and an economic case for managed immigration and a humanitarian approach to asylum. We in the  Group will support the Commission in its efforts to move the Union towards the common policies foreseen in the Amsterdam Treaty. For in the words of that great Liberal J.K. Galbraith: 'Migration is the oldest action against poverty. What is the perversity in the human soul that causes people to resist so obvious a good?'.(Applause)
Mr President, I wish to ask you about the fate that awaits the Laotian companions of Thierry Falise and Vincent Reynaud who, as we know, have fortunately been released after being arrested and sentenced to more than twenty years in prison. We know nothing, however, about the fate of the Laotians who were travelling with them. I should like to know whether it would be possible to obtain any information about them because logic would dictate that the men accompanying the journalists should also be released. They appear not to have been fortunate enough to benefit from the action taken by Foreign Affairs Ministers and Ambassadors to ensure the journalists’ release.
Mr President, I wanted to briefly draw your attention to the admission procedure for visitors in Brussels. I can inform you that, when we receive visitors in Brussels at the moment, they are admitted and then required to identify themselves. Subsequently, however, their identity cards are collected at reception.  I must admit, I find this rather an odd procedure. Why should someone who comes to visit us, one of our citizens, hand over their identity cards? The cards are then thrown into a box and when they want to leave the Parliament building, they have to wait for fifteen minutes before they get their identity cards back. I would like to ask you what the reason is behind this procedure. If someone has identified themselves, surely that is sufficient? Surely there is then no need to seize their identity cards or driving licences? I would like to ask you, Mr President, to change the admission procedure in Brussels back to how it used to be: you identify yourself, a badge is made and you are admitted.
Mr President, I want to give the explanation on behalf of thein respect of the Commission's legislative programme. We abstained as a group throughout this vote. The reason, as we made clear during the debate on Tuesday, is because we believe the process to be flawed, not because we necessarily have any quarrel with the content. Having put this marker down for this time, in the future we would like to see the process reviewed so that it amounts to more than just ourselves as a Parliament swapping lists with the Commission. We want something more substantial and meaningful.
Mr President, our thanks to the rapporteur, Mr Brunetta, for his thorough report on access to electronic communications networks as part of the open network provisions package. It refined and specified certain aspects of the Commission’s proposal. That is to be welcomed, also in the interest of culture and education, because I viewed the report from the perspective of the draftsperson of the opinion of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport.Telecommunications are changing our lives at a fast pace. Particularly with the rapid development in telecommunications it is important that directives are put in place in good time in order to regulate access and interconnections within the European Union and beyond its borders as effectively as possible. The Commission’s proposal focuses mainly on competition and a level playing field. It is of great importance to national regulatory agencies, certainly in relation to a position of considerable power. It is therefore a purely commercial approach and focuses on the infrastructure. What I feel is missing is the proviso that cultural diversity and plurality should be guaranteed.This is the reason why we in the Committee on Culture have tabled a number of amendments strengthening this aspect. I am consequently very happy that these amendments have also been accepted by the Committee on Industry. In this context we are very concerned that the ‘must carry’ obligation should be extended to broad-band format, as indicated in Amendment No 14.Finally, I would like to turn my attention to the regulation of the APIs and the EPGs and other accompanying facilities in accordance with the procedure of a regulatory committee. In the view of the Commission that only needs to be implemented when there is a revision, but it is now clear that developments are so far advanced that they should fall within the scope of the regulations. Well, Mr President, that will in fact be much too late. It is to be welcomed that the rapporteur has taken this line of reasoning into account.
Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur, fellow MEPs and of course the Commissioner and his staff, because producing this report was a difficult business.The intention was to simplify the 15 existing directives, which will bring more legal certainty, but, above all, more dynamism and labour mobility. I think that that is necessary in order to optimise the internal market, which is, after all, one of the European Union's cornerstones. This is still lacking, because there are still virtual borders hindering mobility. I am therefore pleased with this directive, which could possibly contribute to more labour mobility. I would also like to thank Mr Zappalá for the constructive manner in which he has tried eventually to put the complex proposals that were before us into what is, hopefully, a workable and improved shape by means of compromise amendments.However, I, along with the, also have a few points of criticism. There is, for example, the time criterion. In our view, not too much consideration should be given to the duration of training, which is of less importance than its quality. We should therefore arrive at a points system that reflects the quality of training, because I can imagine that training courses leading up to a certain qualification last four years in some countries, and five or six years in others, while the quality is the same. However, according to the proposal regarding the time criterion, different levels should be awarded. I am not in favour of that and I hope that Amendment No 12, which I tabled and which is, admittedly, included in the preamble, will eventually be included in the legislative text possibly following consultation with the rapporteur.I am also of the opinion that the rights and duties for professions with a certain liability and responsibility in public health should be tightened up. I am mainly referring to the medical and socio-medical professions. I think that those professions should be subject to mandatory registration. I am, above all, also thinking of the requirements that are prescribed in the Member State to which people move in order to work, for example compulsory liability insurance. I hope that we will find a solution for this.I should now like to turn to an aspect that I regard as important, namely access to the labour market. The Commission proposal states that people need to have worked for two out of the past ten years. In the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, this has been changed to two years over the past five years. I think this discriminates against a number of groups, including women who start a family, have children and then return to work. They would then have to work in a Member State for two years before they can access Europe. I would like to urge this House to keep to the Commission proposal of two years out of the past ten. I will also be asking for a roll-call vote on this.While I welcome the fact that advisory platforms will be set up, I would ask you not to extend these to national platforms, for that would make the whole thing too complex, and any attempts at arriving at a recommendation would then be chaotic. I think that we should persevere with the Commission proposal to organise it at European level. Finally, I hope that this directive will attract a large majority, so that we can make the internal market more efficient than it already is.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the review of the trans-European network guidelines, which dated back to 1996, was, without a doubt, necessary, both in order to resolve the increasingly complex infrastructure problems and to prepare for enlargement.The work of the Van Miert Group is certainly thorough, but I do not fully endorse its strategic approach, which is biased towards northern Europe to the detriment of the south and the Mediterranean, an area which represents a major opportunity – and also a major European challenge – in terms of the economic, cultural and social cohesion of peoples and countries with which we are called to enter into a new, major dialogue.Therefore, if Italy is a major bridge in the Mediterranean between north and south and between east and west, I fail to understand why both the Adriatic corridor and the Mediterranean corridor, designed to satisfy the requirements of intermodality and interoperability, have been removed from the list of priorities. Only the bridge over the Straits of Messina, which is a case apart, remains.We therefore call upon the Commission to ensure that they are reinstated once again among the priority projects for 2020, and for endeavours to improve relations between the public and private sectors and to implement controls.
Mr President, I think that Mrs De Keyser’s report is very uneven. There are some chapters which are interesting and which open up new prospects, in particular regarding reproductive health and the rights of disabled persons. However, with regard to the central issue, to which Mrs De Keyser had wanted, in a way, to give preference, I think that she has dealt with it rather poorly.I am talking about the issue of the relationship between human rights and the war on terrorism and, to be more specific, the challenge which the war on terrorism poses to democracy. In the twentieth century, democracies were faced with the challenge of war. Could we go to war and still remain democracies? It was necessary to find solutions that struck a balance between the ideal and the constraints of reality.Now we have to demonstrate our creative abilities again in trying to strike a balance on current issues. We cannot place the rights of terrorists and the rights of the victims of terrorism on an equal footing. We cannot allow the war on terrorism to take second place to the war on those who are combating terrorism. Yet this, particularly with regard to the Middle East, is the unpleasant feeling produced by Mrs De Keyser, in seeking to put everything on an equal footing, whereas what we have to do is to invent a right of legitimate democratic defence against terrorism. This is the central issue, and unfortunately she has failed to address it, a fact which I find regrettable.
Mr President, Commissioner, I wish to thank Mrs Honeyball for her well thought-out report. The fact that this is an explosive subject is something of which we have become aware in the course of the committee’s reading. For a number of my fellow MEPs, the word ‘tax’ appears to be enough to give rise to great indignation. We are concerned here with coordination, not harmonisation, so you do not need to be so frightened. The Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party believes in the need to take great care with tax legislation at EU level. That is quite clear. We can, however, imagine a few exceptions, and one such is environmental tax, which is one of the things being indirectly proposed in this case.It is also of course a question of simplifying matters for the individual citizen, of providing better basic conditions for people’s freedom of movement and of reducing costs, as in the case of Mr Vatanen’s example involving the hugely expensive car in Finland. There should in all likelihood be almost complete agreement in this House about creating greater mobility for individuals and less bureaucratic rules in the internal market.Allow me to say a word or two about the environmental aspect. We know that road transport accounts for a very large proportion of carbon dioxide emissions. We also know that road transport, and thus the quantity of emissions, is on the increase. Matters cannot continue like this. That is something we ourselves have acknowledged. Through the Kyoto Protocol, the EU Member States have promised considerably to reduce, rather than increase, emissions. It is therefore probably a good strategy to devise simple and clear tax systems capable of benefiting the environment.Those of us who legislate have significant opportunities to influence the behaviour of both producers and consumers. A premium must be placed upon environmental considerations. It is a question of encouraging those motor manufacturers which produce cleaner engines and those consumers who exchange their dirty old cars for cleaner ones. It is also a question of buying the cleanest form of fuel. I also believe that use, rather than ownership, should be taxed in the first place.The issue of tax on diesel fuel is also interesting. Diesel engines have more efficient combustion and therefore release less carbon dioxide than petrol engines. Diesel, as a fuel, should not therefore be treated unfairly from a taxation point of view, as has also been pointed out in this House. These are important points of view.The  Group has tabled an amendment rejected by the committee. It is about being able to put safety into the equation, as Mr Vatanen mentioned. We know that 45 000 people are killed each year on EU roads, in addition to all those who are injured. All this means enormous human suffering and considerable financial costs to society. If we can produce safer cars through favourable taxation, that is something it should be possible to experiment with. I therefore hope that you are able to support Amendment 2.
Mr President, the violence between the different population groups in India cannot remain undiscussed. Needless to say, this is a very important matter that has to be considered in the light of the significance that India represents, not only in Asia, but also in the rest of the world. After all, we should not forget that India is not only a superpower that has great economic potential, it is also a country that has nuclear capacity. All credit to the common resolution for not having succumbed to radical opinions. After all, it should be clear to everyone that India is certainly not experiencing a clash of civilisations. It should be emphasised that Muslims have largely been integrated in Indian society. A concrete example of this so-called multicultural society is the fact that Muslims occupy high government offices. This, however, does not detract from the fact that I deeply regret what happened in Gujarat. I would, however, note that the incidents in Gujarat did not spread to the rest of India. This is, in my view, proof that the Hindu-Muslim coalition is still respecting democratic values. On the other hand, we need to be concerned about the increase in Muslim fundamentalism that is a daily occurrence in Kashmir. The day before yesterday, an attack on an Indian army camp claimed 9 victims. Extremist militia of Muslim activists who demand union with Pakistan are very active here. Last Tuesday, there were already 32 casualties in an Indian army camp too. This time, Indian women and children went into hiding. These incidents must, further to this resolution, also be brought to the attention of the international community. This tragic incident underlines once again the enormous threat which growing terrorism poses. I take the view that the European Union and the European Parliament have every interest in continuing the support India as a constitutional state, where Hindus and Muslims are treated equally, in their endeavours to respect the democratic principles.
As rapporteur for the budget in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, I am well aware that the budget consultation procedure between Council, Commission and Parliament traditionally focuses on three specific areas, that is agriculture, fisheries and the common foreign and security policy. As regards the latter I can fully support the three positions that are underlined in the Mulder report. Since the budget for external policy is approximately EUR 5 billion and that for the common foreign and security policy EUR 40 million, our committee wanted to focus attention on a number of other points than common foreign and security policy.First of all the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy seeks further clarification from the European Commission on the financial framework for the southeastern Europe region for the period 2004-2006. Although the European Commission has recently promised an additional EUR 200 million, it is still very unclear precisely where this money is to come from.Secondly, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy is also seeking special attention for the EU police mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Although the mission is being conducted more than adequately, we are receiving various signals that necessary materiel is sometimes being supplied too late or not at all.Finally, our committee is seeking special attention for the additional financial needs of the wider Europe initiative. Provision must be made for adequate resources for the CARDS, MEDA and TACIS programmes and possibly also for a new neighbourliness tool. It gives me great pleasure that the Committee on Budgets has taken up this and other recommendations and I should like to compliment Mr Mulder on his clear and powerful report and wish him every success in the tripartite talks.
Mr President, I would like to reiterate the thanks to the rapporteur for the extremely cooperative manner in which he has embarked upon this important report and I am pleased to participate in the intimate gathering of renewable fanatics so late at night.Three points – firstly, the whole issue of a level playing field. It seems to us essential that if we are going to give renewable energies the breathing space and the momentum that they merit, it is right to try and aim for a level playing field. That requires, above and beyond everything else, downward pressure on the unacceptably high and legally dubious levels of subsidies which continue to flow to fossil energy sources in the European Union, notably, but not excusably, the coal industry in a number of large Member States. As long as those market distorting subsidies to fossil fuels continue we cannot realistically talk about a fair or level playing field in the European Union. In that context we join with the rapporteur in feeling that some kind of special provisions concerning subsidies are merited as long as those market distorting subsidies continue elsewhere.On targets, I very much side with Mr Linkohr. We cannot be serious about this without trying to add teeth in some form, moral, financial or otherwise to the concept of targets. We were not very happy with the early versions from the rapporteur because we felt the targets were there to almost micro-manage the market in renewable energy sources. That is neither viable nor desirable, but a mixture of the pressure towards targets, combined with competition between effective renewable energy industries, seems to us to be the long-term approach we should all adopt.Finally, I would make a plea on behalf of my group: let us not set up yet another agency. Paragraph 22 of this report calls for the establishment of a European sustainable energy agency. This Parliament and the European institutions have been spawning a blizzard of new agencies all over the European Union. It does not necessary help us to follow the policies which we wish to follow – it could actually have the effect of ghettoising the policy altogether.
Mr President, Commissioner, many of us remember when Parliament asked Mr Verheugen if we were not engaging in double standards when it came to nuclear safety. We make certain demands of the candidate countries and none of ourselves. I congratulate you on the honesty of your statement. I am convinced that the peer review to which you refer is necessary for nuclear safety.You did not, however, state, Commissioner, whether countries will definitely be able to refuse to receive waste they do not want. The ability, in the future too, to be able to refuse other countries’ nuclear waste has been one of the disputed points.When it comes to the agreement concerning Russia, we know that a debate is under way about what is waste and what is nuclear fuel. Euratom and the Commission have been convinced that Russian standards and administration do not in any way fulfil our requirements. What will the agreement in question look like? Will you be able to guarantee that we too shall not be exporting what is referred to as nuclear fuel under unacceptable conditions?
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin with a timely and relevant saying. It goes, 'The culture of peoples is measured in terms of their love for trees' – and I would like the peoples of the European Union to demonstrate this.When we talk about forests we are talking about one of the most important ecosystems on Earth given their wealth and importance for the international community, since they offer both productive and protective services.The European continent shows the general characteristics of a region located in the planet’s northern hemisphere and has forests with highly differentiated coniferous and non-coniferous species which reflect the regional biodiversity and bio-climatic wealth of the old Europe.In view of all of this, we must recognise the importance today of the report by Mrs Redondo Jiménez for nature in the European Union. I believe there are various reasons for this. On the one hand, the report considers in a general sense the general actions necessary to prevent the deterioration of Community forests as a result of atmospheric pollution and insists on implementing a specific European Union policy to combat forest fires, which are one of the factors threatening the survival of the forests. Furthermore, it specifically recognises the ecological wealth of certain European regions, such as the so-called outermost regions, in which certain forest ecosystems stand out, which in some cases are genuine natural botanical museums, as in the case of the region I come from, the Canary Islands, where forest observatories should be established in these unique Macaronesian islands, one of the bio-geographical regions of the International Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources (IUCN) with the greatest biodiversity in the European Union. But all of this could come to nought if the Commission does not allocate the funding needed to adopt the measures necessary to achieve an appropriate European policy on forests.I congratulate the rapporteur on her sensitivity to the problem of forests and on her courage in defending the Community forests.
Mr President, there must be a common and effective EU contribution to the success of the UN World Conference Against Racism next year and its European preparatory conference next month. The EU has a human rights duty and competence to make all different, all equal, a reality. It can and must forcefully tackle race discrimination and xenophobia making the EU a world leader in the celebration of multicultural and ethnic diversity.Let us do it with wholehearted political conviction, not just as a diplomatic exercise. This question and motion outlines ways in which racism must be documented and prevented and sanctions implemented. Getting effective sanctions means firstly exploiting EU powers for anti-discrimination laws and agreeing the Article 13 Race Directive in record time sent the right signal of determination. Effectiveness also means stepping up intergovernmental police and judicial cooperation under Article 29 of the EU Treaty and ways to do that are explored here.We want to hear that the Member States will sign Protocol No 12 of the European Convention on Human Rights which makes discrimination a direct infringement of the convention on the occasion of the convention’s fiftieth anniversary in November.Other Members and Groups with many helpful amendments which I will accept, but there are some I cannot accept. Firstly, I regret that the opportunity has been taken to identify specific countries and parties as especially bad e.g. Amendments Nos 1, 3, 5 and 6. The trouble with singling out some countries but not others is that you do not make a comprehensive assessment.I therefore appeal to the sponsors of these amendments to consider withdrawing them. In particular I would appeal to Mr Ford to withdraw his Amendment No 1 even if I have sympathy with it since it would be a pity if a motion on these very important European and world conferences were derailed over Austria.
Mr President, Turkey has won the Eurovision Song Contest, but has not yet scored enough points for the integration festival. Our Turkish friends have undeniably made progress on very many fronts in recent years. If the country meets the Copenhagen criteria, the European Union will have to keep to the promises it has made. I am pleased that, in his well thought-out and sympathetic report, the Christian Democrat Mr Oostlander recognises that the universal values of democracy, constitutional state and human rights can very well be accepted and defended in a country with a clear Muslim majority.It is crucially important for us that Turkey develops quickly into a fully-fledged democracy, in which the armed forces are subordinate to elected politicians. It is for this reason that the Turkish National Security Council with its present powers and in its present form must be dissolved. Many quarters point to the important role of the military in guarding the secular State. It is said to act as a bulwark against rising Muslim fundamentalism. I should like to point out however that it is not only the task of the military to keep Muslim radicalism at bay, but of all responsible leaders. As far as necessary the structure of the State must be adapted to anchor all the democratic requirements. We therefore support the reforms of the political and legal system the Erdogan government has in mind. We are naturally very curious about the precise details of the new Constitution. This is not a matter of more or less Kemalism, but simply of the compatibility with universal standards and the demands of EU membership.We are glad that the Erdogan government has now tabled legislative proposals to strengthen freedom of speech and to permit the use of Kurdish in audiovisual resources and election campaigns. Nonetheless I would, with Mr Oostlander, point to the fact that a successful legislative process is not sufficient in itself. It comes down above all to its application in practice. While the police remain free to torture prisoners and human rights continue to be violated, there is no way, as far as I am concerned, that the negotiations can begin. A drastic softening of Turkey’s attitude to the Cyprus problem is also needed. The failure of the Hague conference was attributable in no small part to the rigidity of the Turkish position. Ankara should allow itself to be led more by the positive attitude of the Turks who live in Cyprus than by the negative pronouncements of their leader there.Finally, Turkey will have to develop a policy of good neighbourliness with Armenia, which can then in due course lead to a political gesture of which the Armenians have such incredibly great need. In December 2004 we are going to take stock, but there cannot yet be any question of accession in the near future. There is still a very long way to go before the whole of Europe, away from the song festival, votes for Turkey.
Mr President, for a long time the future of Côte d’Ivoire looked bright. It was one of the countries in Africa held up as an example of stability and economic growth. Little by little, Côte d’Ivoire fell into a cycle of violence, chiefly since the introduction of ivoirité, or Ivorian identity, a concept that is in fact comparable with apartheid. It is absolutely clear that the ruling political class, the President included, is capable of anything in order to reinforce its power, and, and in so doing, does not even balk at taking the path of ethnic cleansing. The parallels with the events of ten years ago on the eve of the genocide in Rwanda are alarmingly great.There is of course no immediate alternative to the Marcoussis Agreements, but Mrs Kinnock is right in saying that these may well have to be evaluated and the necessary adjustments made. At any event, the main problem is their enforceability. The international community must no longer stop at lip service. Commissioner, the European Union must consider all possible initiatives and instruments, including deferring aid to Côte d’Ivoire until the government is prepared to implement the Linas-Marcoussis Agreements consistently and in their entirety.Remaining silent and looking on passively today could very well be interpreted as passive complicity tomorrow. Please let us avoid a repeat of Rwanda.
Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, I should first like to endorse the statements made by Mr Watson, the leader of my group. I join with him in condemning the conflict in Iraq and calling for agreements within the framework of the United Nations, of course. I also join with him in wishing to commit the European Union to regaining its unity. The Union must then contribute to rebuilding the affected areas so a process of peace and stability can actually be consolidated and guaranteed. The European Union was unable to demonstrate the unity required. Sadly, it was therefore unable to exert its influence as we had hoped. I trust that at least we shall now be capable of first regaining our unity and then of leading the peace.I should also like to congratulate the Greek Presidency on the results of the Brussels Council held last week. The Council was devoted in particular to consideration of the so-called Lisbon process. During debates and discussion at Strasbourg it had already emerged that we have little to congratulate ourselves on in this regard. In terms of productivity and competitiveness, the gap between Europe and the United States has not narrowed. On the contrary, it is now actually widening.As we understand it, the reason is that the appropriate structural reforms were not carried out. Also, the discipline promised concerning key aspects such as the promotion of research and development activities failed to materialise. New enterprises capable of taking on board innovation and new technological processes were not encouraged either. Obviously, all this has hampered the development hoped for.I believe the secret of effective implementation of the Lisbon process commitments lies in the area of structural reform. It is equally important to promote research and development activities and the activities of small and medium-sized enterprises, in conjunction with proposals for social improvements.(Applause)
Mr President, I should like both to congratulate and to thank the Spanish Presidency – and not only the prime minister, but also all the other ministers – for their sympathetic cooperation with the European Parliament. Personally, I should like to see the prime minister – and, hopefully, his delightful wife too – have the opportunity to take some holiday now.The following is not therefore directed at the prime minister personally, but at the Council, and it concerns the issue of illegal immigration. The Council declarations devote an incredible number of lines, not to mention pages, to illegal immigration. No sensible person is in favour of illegal immigration. The issue comes down entirely to whether the causes are to be tackled or whether a ‘Fortress Europe’ is to be created. The Council has, in the main, concentrated exclusively on a ‘Fortress Europe’, and the document that deals with the actual causes is too weak and ineffectual. According to that document, the European Council draws attention to the importance of economic cooperation. Would it not be better if the European Council refrained from drawing attention to anything at all and instead actually did something, for it is precisely European cooperation that can do something about these matters. We shall continue to have illegal immigration if we do not bring about sensible cooperation with the developing countries and, as long as we do nothing, illegal immigrants cannot be blamed for coming to Europe. The most important thing, therefore, is to bring about sensible cooperation.
Mr President, Commissioner, I also wish to thank Mr Andersson for his very clear and well set-out report, and the Commission for a very interesting report on European pensions systems. How countries organise their pensions systems falls within the sphere of national competences, but I think that the report, with its objectives of adequate, sustainable pensions and flexible pensions systems may provide inspiration and give rise to sensible debates at national level. I also think that an interesting conclusion has been reached, namely that, in general, there is a high degree of redistribution and solidarity in the Member States’ pensions systems, but that women are disadvantaged in many countries because of their special position in the labour market. Something needs to be done about this, and I am pleased about the strong emphasis placed here upon the need to press for something to be done about the matter. I therefore very much agree with the overall conclusion of Mr Andersson’s report. On the other hand, I disagree with a number of the amendments before us from the left side of the House where the investment of pensions savings in shares and bonds is clearly seen as an evil in itself. It is true that there have been problems with pension funds, which have suffered large losses in connection with the large falls in share prices, but I do not think that the answer is to stop introducing savings schemes for pensions. On the contrary, I think that better control of the risk in connection with pension funds’ investments must be ensured and that there must be stronger supervision on the part of the authorities. That is also something we can cooperate on at EU level in order to guarantee better risk management. We are all, of course, getting older, and it is not too much to ask that each of us take joint responsibility for saving up for old age and help ensure that future generations do not have unreasonable burdens placed upon them, for it is also a question of distribution between the generations.
Mr President, it is the opinion of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party that the resolution agreed among the groups will provide a good basis for the work of the EU-Russia Summit. The position taken here is forward-looking and constructive, although it also has criticisms to make. The resolution will also be of use with regard to the Parliamentary Cooperation Committee meeting between the European Parliament and the Russian Duma to be held in Moscow next week.For my own part I would like to stress that we must try to narrow the economic and social differences that exist on all the Union’s external borders. With the border between the EU and Russia becoming much longer than before, we must make dramatic improvements to cross-border cooperation. We must particularly encourage the Member States and their regions located on the EU’s external borders to create direct links over the border to Russia.Such systematic programmes of cooperation between neighbouring regions have been in place on the border between Finland and Russia for a good ten years now. There now has to be the same kind of action both between Estonia and Russia and Latvia and Russia. Lithuania and Poland, meanwhile, must take special responsibility for the development of the Kaliningrad region. The Union has to be prepared to finance this cooperation between neighbouring regions.For cooperation in the border regions we need a new system of funding. The current TACIS and Interreg systems are not strong enough and they cannot be adequately coordinated. We have to create a new system of funding that can be used on the Union’s other external borders too. The PHARE scheme, before it became part of the accession process, might serve as a model for this new system.
Mr President, the risk of terrorism is omnipresent now. The dull and brooding presence of sudden, unanticipated and violent death hangs over military and civilians alike in all our nations. Links have been found recently between the Al Qaeda network and pro-Saddam forces fighting the free Kurdish people in northern Iraq. However, a much better established and older terrorist organisation has been working inside Iraq since 1986: the MKO, or MEK as they are known inside the USA. The MKO have thousands of members inside Iraq and thousands outside, financed, equipped, armed and trained by the Iraqi army and fully engaged, militarily at least, since 1986 in all of Saddam's many wars.The USA froze MEK assets in 1994, declaring the group under its many aliases to be an international terrorist organisation. The EU followed the US example as late as 2001, yet last week the New York Times published a full-page advertisement for the MEK, using the names and photographs of members of the US Congress and claiming their support. Our recent debates on Iraq have been attended by known members of MKO. These people are a threat to world security. Their organisation strikes silently but with lethal impact. This is Saddam's private international terrorist army, working against us all. Whatever our differences on the future treatment of Iraq, for the sake of our citizens and global safety, I urge that far greater security attention be paid to the MKO. For war or no war, with or without a war, the criminals who make up the MKO continually kill and destroy the innocent among us.(Applause)
Mr President, Commissioner, smoking is dangerous both for people who smoke and for those in their vicinity. Even those who are not even born are harmed by the fact that their mothers or fathers smoke. Smoking is therefore very much a public health issue. We must therefore do everything to prevent people from starting smoking. I know what I am talking about, Mr Katiforis, for I, myself, have been a smoker.The words ‘public health’ do not even appear in the report. Mr Katiforis is a very intelligent and agreeable fellow MEP, but even intelligent MEPs are occasionally wrong. This time, Mr Katiforis is wrong. There is a lot of evidence to show that higher cigarette prices reduce the level of smoking. Less tobacco is consumed, and fewer young people begin smoking.In my country, the Public Health Institute has calculated that the one-off effect of the increase in cigarette prices in 1997 was to save 12 500 people from premature death, thanks to the fact that 100 000 people gave up smoking when cigarettes became more expensive. We are talking here simply about my own country, Sweden, which has only 9 million inhabitants. As is well known, taxes in Sweden are, moreover, significantly higher than in the EU generally.The arguments are therefore in favour of our being obliged to accept the Commission’s proposals. However, I do not believe it is sensible for the EU to support tobacco cultivation at the same time as great efforts are being made to prevent smoking and reduce the spread of cancer. We must be a little more consistent and not engage too much in double standards. I therefore hope that Parliament will support Mr Maaten’s amendment and, through it, the Commission’s proposal too, albeit in a somewhat stricter form.
Mr President, this is a good practical proposal from the Commission for doing something about global warming and reducing greenhouse gas emissions, because, although the total quantity of greenhouse gases being produced from air conditioning and refrigeration equipment is not vast, the amount is growing very substantially year by year – it is expected to increase 15 times between 1995 and 2010.The committee has rejected some of the key proposals from the Commission on mobile air conditioning. I hope it has made the position for the car industry clearer. However, I am not sure that the way in which we have thrown out some of the opportunities for flexibility is really the most appropriate course of action, so we shall wait to see what the Council of Ministers has to say about that and, no doubt, return to this debate.Most of all, I regret that the Socialist Group and thehave done this deal on pushing the date for the introduction of vehicles using carbon dioxide back to 2011 from the original proposal of the committee for 2009. That is not ambitious enough, certainly not for a first reading, when we have so many negotiations yet to come. I know it takes manufacturers many years to design a vehicle to put on the market. A few years ago no one used air conditioning – I have never bought a car with air conditioning. What do we say to future generations? We did not take action to curb greenhouse gas emissions and global warming as fast as we could, because we all wanted to drive around in cooler cars in the summer. However convincing the industry's arguments may be now, they will look pretty weak in years to come.
Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Prodi for presenting the new members of the Commission and also for the considerable efforts he made to secure the accession of the ten new States.In its negotiations with the European Union, Slovenia attempted to use its very best people. In this we succeeded. The team conducting these proceedings within the government of the Republic of Slovenia performed its task with distinction, naturally with the consensus of all the parliamentary parties. The proposed candidate for the new Slovenian Commissioner is undisputedly one of these people and I am therefore delighted that he has been nominated. Dr Potočnik's team, and before him Mr Bavčar's team, based their success on the fact that all their negotiating positions had been endorsed in the Slovenian parliament, which was something unique and an example of great cooperation on both sides.Mr Prodi, the ten, or rather twelve, new players will strengthen the fine team that you lead. If this team also cooperates closely with the European Parliament, it will be even more successful and that is something we must not forget.
I am delighted that Parliament has overwhelmingly approved paragraph 49 regretting the passing by the US Senate of a bill which would allow for the use of force by the US to prevent its citizens from being tried by the International Criminal Court (ICC). The overwhelming support for that paragraph (385 Members in favour) indicates that D66 was right to raise this issue in Parliament because the success of the ICC is a European issue.Despite these and other important positions I subscribe to, I hesitated to vote in favour because of the following passage: '6. Stresses that the ratification of the Nice Treaty by all Member States will facilitate a successful enlargement process'.It is factually incorrect to suggest that ratification of the Treaty of Nice facilitates the enlargement process. During the Nice summit, our governments’ leaders chose to make Europe slightly less democratic and less efficient. Moreover, by going further down the road of intergovernmentalism (and consequently less transparency) the Treaty of Nice leads Europe in the opposite direction to where we need to go.(Abbreviated in accordance with Rule 137(1) of the Rules of Procedure)- Brok report (A5-0190/2002)
Mr President, financial services should be the big winner from e-commerce, because the sector does not have the problems of physical delivery, unlike booksellers or grocery supermarkets. A financial service, whether a savings vehicle like a pension or a mutual fund or just a simple bank account, is by its nature ethereal and intangible.Many transactions in banking and stockbrokerage are already taking place online. UNICE, the EU employers' organisation, estimates that nearly one-fifth of banking transactions in Europe are now executed through the Internet, direct dial, mobile phone, or digital television, nearly double the proportion in the US. In the Nordic countries of the Union, the overall proportion is more than a third. However, the vast majority of those transactions happen within an EU Member State. Cross-border e-commerce in financial services is in its infancy and it has not chased prices down to the level of the cheapest Member State. Indeed, the most recent survey suggests that bank charges vary more widely around the average than they did in the mid-80s at the beginning of the single market programme. There is a lot still to do.The e-commerce directive past last year was designed to encourage cross-border trade by enshrining the country-of-origin principle. This is one of the essential market-opening principles of the internal market. If harmonising rules is too difficult, at least recognise the right of any company to do business anywhere in the Union once authorised by one Member State. The key judgment was that consumers would benefit more from increased competition than they might lose from the greater difficulty of seeking legal redress from a far-flung and delinquent supplier. That is simply because the country-of-origin principle ensures the maximum amount of extra competition and extra competition is ultimately the consumer's best friend.True, the e-commerce directive allows exceptions still subject to national regulation of incoming services, notably insurance in unit trusts. In general, most of the liberally-minded market-opening fraternity were pleased to get it on the statute book. As its full implications have sunk in, some Member States have been quietly attempting to restrict the scope of its application and backpedal on its implications. This is the real significance of the Commission's White Paper on e-commerce and financial services. It is designed to clear up the bits left out of the e-commerce directive and the report we are debating tonight is designed to support the Commission's resolve to open up the single market; if necessary, by insisting on the provisions of the e-commerce directive despite the reservations of some Member States.We must maintain the liberal thrust of the e-commerce directive. That means also setting a clear timetable to include both insurance and advertising of unit trusts in the general country-of-origin approach. Insurance services, for example, are particularly suited to e-commerce provision. It also means basing any guidance from the Commission to Member States about consumer protection on real documented problems, not on imagined ones. Of course, there are real difficulties. The Commission needs to look at these difficulties carefully and attempt to set out a clear road map to allow e-commerce and financial services to flourish. Consumers are concerned about security, particularly with cross-border transactions.Soft law provisions, alternative dispute procedures, should be made effective so that they can deal with the vast majority of problematic cases and we have asked for a regular report on that. Some convergence of national rules on consumer contracts is clearly desirable, though this should not be used as an excuse to delay the single market. Some standard features of terrestrial banking, like applying the money-laundering provisions by looking your depositor in the eye to ask where her or his money came from, require fresh thought in an e-depositing world. It is also the case that financial services transactions are rarely entirely online without any offline elements, so we need to work as far as possible to ensure coherence.The prize for getting this framework right is very great. E-commerce and the euro can make a reality of cross-border financial services, not just for business but also for savers and the extra competition will, as it always does, bring long-lasting and real benefits. So, I urge the House to stick to the line that we have set in the past in asking for opening up of this market.
Mr President, the President-in-Office of Council said that the European Union will not fail to give a welcome to legal migrants. This looks hypocritical since the Council agreed a very restrictive text on family reunion rights. Indeed it is so mean, that the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market advises that the European Parliament should seek the annulment of this text in the European Court on grounds of a breach of the family rights provisions of the European Convention on Human Rights. I welcome that.The Council has been left in no doubt as to the strength of feeling in this House about the internment without due process of Guantanamo Bay prisoners. As co-rapporteur on this topic, I am helping to prepare a submission from this Parliament to the Supreme Court, but only the Council can make representations on behalf of the EU as a whole. It has already signed a legal cooperation agreement with the US, so the Americans cannot dispute the Council's legal status.It would be outrageous if governments  such as the UK Government  doing bilateral deals frustrated a Council initiative. Even if we get Europeans back from Guantanamo Bay, we must speak up for the rest of the 650 detainees. As we are showing on steel tariffs, if the EU punches its weight, the US takes notice.
Mr President, I believe that the Commission proposal forms an excellent basis. Everyone must be involved and the initial allocation of rights is free. There is, however, one snag; the risk of distortion of competition within the EU. In other words, the playing field may become too uneven, and you were right, Commissioner, to point out that this is unacceptable among national allocation schemes. This is also why I am opposed to national exemptions, whereby a country can grant a company or a sector exemption. It is my conviction that everyone should take part. If necessary, exemptions may be granted at European level for one or other clear reason which can be objectively established.In addition, I am of the opinion that the allocation must also take account of the energy efficiency of the technology used in a company. A company that does not work efficiently should not be rewarded with an initial generous allocation of rights for free. Since it is impossible to sell because a high number of sectors must operate in a global market, and would therefore be disadvantaged by this sale, European allocation criteria should be put into place that are objective, transparent and stringent and that apply to everyone. We need a benchmark, the best available technology, and we need to prescribe compulsory criteria based on these for everyone and every Member State, since this scheme also affects the distribution of the burden across the Member States in one way or another.There is the chance therefore, and unfortunately the Member States that are experiencing difficulties are nearly all small Member States, which makes the discussion for us highly problematic, in that there is distortion of competition, which does not mean that we reject this scheme, because this scheme, for us who are finding it difficult to cope, makes the effort more bearable and cheaper, as the price of the effort is reduced.This is why we need an effective scheme. We will at any rate need to adjust this scheme along the way, and we will at any rate be facing climate problems, greenhouse gases, measures which we need to take long after 2012. We should be clear about one thing: it is impossible to build an ecological paradise on an economic graveyard.
Mr President, on my own and Mrs Boogerd-Quaak’s behalf, I would state that we voted against the Fourtou report in the final vote. Certainly, it is important that measures be taken to combat piracy, but the regulations as amended go much further. In particular, extending the regulations to include patents would be a mistake.We can also concur with Mr Schnellhardt’s criticism of the procedure, a criticism that can also apply where this point is concerned. For example, the group had extremely few opportunities to discuss this matter before we faced having to make a final decision. There is also justification for observing that more than 50 leading experts on intellectual property law in Europe appealed to Parliament to look more carefully at the matter, something we have not, however, done.The legal basis can also be questioned, since the procedure is now at issue. Pursuant to Article 95 of the Treaty establishing the European Community, the Community has not usually approved such procedures. I wish therefore to observe that we have obtained regulations that may damage small enterprises and that are not limited to combating piracy, which is what is important.
Mr President, I should like to thank Mrs Smet for her very dogged and persistent work on women’s rights. It has in actual fact been admirable. I should also like to thank Commissioner Patten for his speech, even if I have to say that I felt myself to be far more in agreement with a long list of other speeches than I actually did with this one.Here in Parliament, we very often discuss EU defence, foreign and security policy, and the Commissioner takes the lead in these areas. We would also say in this connection that the EU should not only be an economic power in the world, that is to say a ‘soft’ power, but also a ‘hard’ power, in other words also have a military preparedness and become, if not a superpower, then in any case a military power.I do not disagree that we should have a common foreign, security and defence policy, but anyone and everyone, and especially the Commissioner, knows that it will take some time before this happens. It is not tomorrow that we shall obtain the military capacity and agreement on EU foreign and security matters for which we might all wish. We are, however, already an economic power. We are a powerful factor in the economic area, and that is a factor I think we should exploit much more intensively than we do.We might well, of course, help the oppressed half of the population, that is to say women, that genuinely suffers from a long list of injustices on a variety of fronts: partly cultural traditions, decided by men; partly violence when men do not get their way; and partly trade, because men want to make profits from women; and so on and so forth. We might well intervene and do something more in these areas. Mrs Smet has herself mentioned the Taliban regime, which did not only take the most basic rights, such as educational rights, away from women, but also every possible other right. This is an area in which the EU can do something, but are we doing enough? The Commissioner says we are doing a lot, but are we doing a sufficient amount, and are we doing it systematically enough?I think that one of the things we could perhaps do in response to this report might be to debate further whether we might not be able to do things more systematically, whether it might not be possible for us to obtain some reports from the Commission on what is actually happening in connection with certain cooperation agreements, and whether anything at all practical ever happens at all when violations of basic human rights, and not merely of women’s rights, occur.
Madam President, Commissioner Patten correctly said that we have no quarrel with Islam. I say that we have a quarrel with those who abuse Islam and who turn the principles of Islam into weapons against the innocent. In the same way, we have no quarrel with the Afghan people. Our quarrel is with bin Laden who shelters in Afghanistan and with the Taliban, they seem to be almost one and the same, and we pity the situation of the Afghan people. They are already one of the poorest nations upon Earth. Two million Afghan refugees are sheltering in the Islamic Republic of Iran and they have been for some years now. It is sad to see how little international help has been given to those refugees or to their hosts, the Iranian government.These refugees fled acute starvation and utter brutality in Afghanistan to find a haven in Iran and there are huge numbers of new refugees now on the move. The psychological terror that our new alliance has properly caused against terrorism in the region is causing the new flight of so many new millions of refugees. We must ask ourselves, how we can save lives?We have always supported NGOs. We have perhaps given less interinstitutional support. I plead here to the Commission to look closely at how best to involve our work with that of the United Nations, particularly UNHCR and the World Health Organization, for only the UN, can command the volumes of support that are needed in such a situation, in terms of food, clothing, shelter and the provision of basic needs.I ask the Commission to assist the refugees who have already fled and are in situ elsewhere. May I also include the 3.5 million Iraqi refugees in the region. We must do all we can to help.
Mr President, Commissioner, the developments in Nepal are worrying. I myself, who had planned to go there in the course of the next few months, have, for example, been advised against travelling. Nepal is one of the poorest countries in the world, with only USD 220 in GDP per person per year. Children’s development in Nepal is extremely problematic. Fifty-four per cent of children under five are said to be too short of stature and to be affected by stunted growth because of poor nutrition.Illiteracy is another major problem. Sixty-three per cent of men can read, but only 28% of women. This trend continues where access to basic and higher education is concerned. That is why the Finnish section of UNICEF has launched one of its biggest projects, aimed at improving girls’ schooling in Nepal, as well as at promoting village development.One other problem is the fact that education is extremely politicised. In spite of the unrest in the country, the project is nonetheless continuing both in Katmandu and outside the city. Those with whom I have talked say that the rebellion that has just taken place cannot be characterised simply as Maoist, but is a general trend. Certain people in this House believe that Nepal is in great danger of being partitioned in the same way as Tibet. Those I spoke to did not agree.We are also conscious that the unrest in the country has been caused by the fact that the population really does not have any confidence in the person who took over following the tragic events within the royal family last summer. This lack of confidence is partly due to the fact that senior members of the royal family are suspected of also having been guilty of murders other than those which occurred last summer.Our view is that there are serious threats to human rights, freedom of the press and other traditional freedoms, and this is something to which we must be alert. Other developments in the country must, however, continue.
Madam President, I am pleased that there has been an agreement. Obviously everybody is looking into the detail now and although we were very excited when we first got the agreement, I think a lot of people would agree that it is going to be quite difficult to find out whether it is going to benefit some of the smaller clubs – in particular, academy clubs – as much as we hoped. I know this has been touched on, but Stoke City in my constituency has an academy club as good as Manchester United and my fear is that it will get less money because it is not in the premier league.I would like the Commissioner to say whether she is going to look again at whether all clubs could be treated on the same level. I know FIFA has recommended it. I understand that a Hungarian player who has had his transfer put on hold is probably going to mount a legal challenge. What would happen if that legal challenge is successful? Would we then have to go back to the drawing-board?
Mr President, we from the Liberal group will deeply miss Mr Schulz’s pure and crystal-clear democratic input in this area of policy. It is unfortunate, but we wish you all the best in your new job. This was the fun part of what I wanted to say.What shape is the European asylum policy in? That is hard to say, as there is not really a European asylum policy to speak of. We in this Parliament, the delegates as well as their predecessors, have for years been pushing in the right direction. So far, the European Commission, that is to say the present Commissioner’s predecessor, failed to come up with the goods but, prior to the Treaty of Amsterdam, had little say in the matter anyway. The previous European Commission may have had the will, but did not have any power. The bottleneck, as we quite often noticed, was located within the Council of Ministers. Most governments showed willing too, but they were subject to the rule of unanimity. Then there was the Tampere Summit. Dozens of proposals were submitted there, also in this area of policy. Things were looking up, according to many journalists. They had, however, overlooked the fact that the crippling policy of decision-making on the basis of unanimity still applied. It is unlikely that a scoreboard will be able to unlock this paralysis within policy. All it will do is make it clear to the outside world which body and country are responsible for the paralysis within policy.What needs to happen now? All sorts of things need to happen. As far as we, the Liberal group, are concerned, both the European Commission’s working document and Mr Schmitt’s report, which we are discussing today, are a useful leg-up to the next phase and, in our opinion, and I would echo the opinions of previous speakers, Mr Schmitt has adopted a level-headed approach in his report. We will be voting in favour of the tenor of the report and we are backing it.
The implementation of careful supervision rules in the European Union will protect saving and give people confidence in investments in stocks and shares.The globalisation of risks should further encourage the European authorities to develop supervision rules at international level. In this context, the invitation made by Parliament to the Commission and the European Supervisory Committees to organise, jointly with the American Federal Reserve and the Security and Exchange Commission, a transatlantic financial forum, is going in the right direction. Other, broader initiatives, should not, however, be ruled out.
Madam President, I just wanted to follow up the previous point of order and ask when are we going to be able to debate the proposals in Mr Corbett's report – which I understand are stuck in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs – so that this ludicrous procedure, with six pages of plenary amendments on one report, can be reformed. We will be a laughing stock if we do not reform and get our House in order.(Applause)***Report (A5-0323/2001) by Mrs Corbey, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, on implementation of Directive 94/62/EC on packaging and packaging waste 2000/2319(INI)(Parliament adopted the resolution)***Report (A5-0336/2001) by Mr Salafranca Sánchez-Neyra, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, on a global partnership and a common strategy for relations between the European Union and Latin America [2000/2249(INI)]– Before the vote
Mr President, I want to speak on the linked issues of data protection and parliamentary accountability. The joint supervisory authority responsible for data protection is composed of a Member from each Member State. It is supposed to ensure that Europol respects the Convention's provisions on data protection. It has to review the activities of Europol in order to ensure that the rights of individuals are not violated by the storage, processing and utilisation of data held. It must monitor the permissibility of the transmission of data originating from Europol. It submits regular reports to the Council.The Convention itself, in several Council acts, lays down rules on the use of data and the communication of that data to third states and bodies. But to judge from the evidence given by the UK Member of the joint supervisory body to the House of Lords European Select Committee, we have reason to ask if we can have total confidence in the thoroughness with which the joint supervisory authority is doing its job. I therefore fully support the recommendation in the reports we are debating that this authority should report to both the Council and Parliament and should be available for questioning before the relevant committee, which would be the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs.The evidence that worried me was given last November. Mr Francis Aldhouse, the Deputy Information Commissioner in the UK, was responding to questions about the Europol-US agreement on exchange of personal data. He discussed the difficulty of evaluating the adequacy of data protection in the United States – because they have no federal law or data protection authority, but rely largely on case-law, judicial supervision and audit. He expressed concern at the very wide provisions for transfer of data and the potential for abuse in the Europol-US agreement. But then, abdicating any responsibility for being vigilant and active, he concluded: 'I think we ought to take the view, particularly as between Western European countries and the United States, that here is a set of countries which take a pride in abiding by the rule of law and will honour their agreements. I share the view of my JSB colleagues that this is acceptable.' – i.e. that we trust the guys. I do not believe it is responsible for him to abdicate responsibility like this, and he is the UK Member on the joint supervisory body.The House of Lords was not impressed either and urged the body to adopt a robust approach to the protection of personal data in third country agreements. By requesting accountability to the European Parliament we can help ensure this, although we must also have partnership with national parliaments. A joint committee of European and national parliaments would be an excellent way forward.
Mr President, the reports under discussion concern extending agricultural reform to olive, cotton and tobacco production. The key issue is the same as with the other reforms: the de-coupling of support and production. The de-coupling of support and production will probably appeal in particular to those opposed to tobacco cultivation. Under the single payment scheme, over EUR 6 000 per hectare would be paid; in other words, the aid would be received even if no tobacco were produced at all. In this way the EU would be vigorously supporting the abandonment of its cultivation and a switch to some other form of production or set-aside measures. This is part of the agricultural reform. It is the biggest of its kind in the history of the EU.As the reform is to begin next year, it is important that its implementation does not jeopardise the levels of income of private farmers. The reform will be very difficult to apply in practice as farms vary in different parts of the EU, as do the conditions of their management. If the period 2000-2002 is to be regarded as the reference period, five years will see changes in ownership, as well as the area farms cover, lines of production and investment. That is why there is the danger that there will be drastic and unjust changes in aid to farms. Commissioner Fischler, it was not for nothing that you pointed this out in your letters to the Ministers for Agriculture.The other problem is the approval of society. Agricultural subsidies have long been seen as compensation for farmers producing at less than the costs of production. Will the taxpayer agree to aid being paid even if nothing is produced?
Mr President, like others in this Chamber, I am one of the fortunate group of people who has visited Bangladesh, not several times like the Commissioner but in such a way as to be able to form some modest impression, and it is against that background that I wish to emphasise how important it is for cooperation between the EU and Bangladesh to be continued and developed further. There are a number of conditions present in Bangladesh that are not present in a number of other developing countries, in as much as Bangladesh – and this, I think, is very important – has only one language and one religion and consists of only one ethnic group, which means that the ethnic conflicts we see, for example, in Africa do not exist there. Nor do religious wars. However, it also means that it would be still worse if we were to let down just such a country, precisely because Bangladesh does not have a number of the problems we see in other countries, and we should be failing the country if we were not to commit a good deal in terms of aid, including development aid. Bangladesh can only hold its own if we are willing to help the country, and that means both the EU, as the Commissioner mentioned, and also the Member States, among which I can call attention to my own country, Denmark, which is one of the largest providers of aid in the area.There are three points I should like to emphasise in addition to the general need for aid and development. There is the need for good governance and support for democracy. Others have touched upon these, so I shall not comment further upon them. There is the need to continue helping to promote women’s independence, for example by continuing and developing further our support for microcredits. Women suffer a good deal of oppression in Bangladesh and, as a number of speakers have already pointed this out I shall not go into any more detail on this subject either. In this connection, I should like to say that women were precisely those who left me feeling most encouraged following my visit. However, I should like to emphasise our need to make further progress now. We cannot be satisfied with microcredits. We must move on to the next phase of development, whether it be concerned with textiles or something else. I come, then, to my third point, which the Commissioner perhaps takes a rather different view of. I believe that, in this context, we can perhaps make use of information and communications technology, precisely in order to support women too – since they are now a mainstay of society – and so as to give a boost to their cause and, all in all, to strengthen the country’s further development.
Madam President, we have all seen the pictures from the base at Guantanamo Bay of the prisoners with their orange-coloured overalls. The issue of how they are being treated has given rise to international concern. We have protested in the European Parliament, and we are not alone in having protested. Most countries – except, for once, Cuba where the base is situated – have in actual fact protested. The fact that there have been no protests in Cuba may possibly be due to the fact that the Cubans are pleased that the focus has been shifted from the way in which they themselves treat their prisoners there, but that is not perhaps a subject for discussion right now.There is some confusion about the legal status of the prisoners at the base at Guantanamo Bay, and this issue needs to be clarified by a competent court. Such a court could be set up by a UN Security Council resolution. Irrespective of what crimes and evil acts the prisoners at Camp X-Ray may have committed – and which we would vigorously condemn – the prisoners must be treated in accordance with international and humanitarian standards and principles. Until such time as their legal status has been established, they must be regarded as prisoners of war.The chairman of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, Graham Watson, said yesterday in the House that we are actually in favour of a review of the Geneva Convention. It would be good if newer and more modern rules could be established that could be applied to prisoners and to acts of terrorism in situations in which, as Mr Napolitano said, there has been no declaration of war. It would be good if the whole Parliament could support this.This Parliament supports the United States and the international fight against terrorism. We have shown this very clearly through our vote earlier today. When democracies engage in such a fight, they must however show respect for human rights and legal principles. I therefore share the concern expressed by my fellow MEPs where the military courts are concerned. It is unacceptable that just one Taliban – an American Taliban, John Walker – should be brought to trial before a civil court when others are to be tried before military courts. We require that there be common rules and that everyone be treated in the same way and be given ordinary legal rights and legal protection in civil courts.It should nonetheless have been possible to avoid a large part of this debate if the United States had ratified the protocol concerning the International Criminal Court so that there had been a permanent court in which people who had committed acts of this kind could also be brought to trial in accordance with international rules. I would really urge the United States to ratify that protocol.(Applause)
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to thank the rapporteur for his thorough work but, in my opinion, the preparatory work has been carried out far too meticulously, with too much weight given to the precautionary principle.I would like to draw your attention to some of the issues that have been raised in this opinion of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy. The Committee found that the proposal for a directive does not follow the procedure specified for the basic directive on additives. The amendments in the Commission’s proposal are based on the needs expressed by a Member State, and the Scientific Committee for Food has delivered a favourable opinion on the amendments in question.Now we are talking about allowing the use of a few new additives. The rapporteur and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy have, however, treated the proposal heavy-handedly and are proposing that the use of most of the new additives mentioned in the Commission’s proposal be rejected. This raises a few questions. The Scientific Committee for Food has delivered a favourable report on proposals by Member States concerning additives. Has it not shown itself capable of the task in question or has the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy indeed gone too far in its interpretation of the precautionary principle? To what extent has the point of view of industry been taken into account in the report? Should not the question of innovations and the use of better additives, as well as competitiveness of the European food industry, be given greater consideration?We might also ask how Parliament in future will manage its enormous task if it tackles issues so meticulously. Should Parliament not decide on goals and procedures whereby matters such as the safe introduction of new additives can be assured? If the report is adopted in the form in which it has been presented, could not the adoption procedure regarding new additives be reformed once and for all and the whole additives list revised? I would ask the rapporteur in question, and the representative of the Commission also, to reply to these questions.
Mr President, Commissioner, I would first like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work and for having taken due account of the proposed amendments while the committee was debating it. The sixth periodical report gives a basis for assessing the implementation of the Union’s regional policy aims. The report shows that growth has been uneven, despite all our efforts. Very rapid growth is continuing in Central Europe. The strongest regional centres also continue to grow faster than the general European average, whereas many southern European and northern areas are developing considerably more slowly.We now require an in-depth analysis of why regional policy is not producing the desired result in all areas. Is the reason bureaucracy or is it because insufficient notice has been taken of interregional differences, long distances, climates that are too cold or too hot, sparse populations and austere conditions? How can the Union respond to the challenges of global development in a way that the less developed areas can remain a part of that development? It is also important to discover what the effects of Union enlargement will be on Structural Funds and the development of the Union’s more remote areas. The Member States must also bear in mind their responsibility. Some Member States have been in breach of the principle of subsidiarity and cut national regional funds when regional aid coming via the Union has been increased. This has chipped away at the results that regional policy has produced.In the future, we must also develop indicators so that measures can be targeted at the right time at the right place. For example, uncontrolled migration has not been given sufficient consideration. In this connection, too, weight has to be given to the decisive importance of SMEs as employers and forces behind regional development. It is absolutely essential that companies in areas developing more slowly adopt the latest technology and know-how. Our Group is in favour of adopting this report.
Mr President, I would thank the Commission for using its communications constantly to provoke discussion of immigration as part of the EU’s response to the ageing population and the ever shrinking workforce, over and above the other aspects of Europe’s encounter with other cultures. These are controversial subjects in all the nation states, but it is high time we obtained analyses of the problems and challenges and proposals for common European solutions.I should next like to congratulate Mr Moraes on the report. It is a particularly relevant and necessary report right now. I am grateful for Mr Moraes’ having integrated the opinions of the Committee on Women’s Rights and Equal Opportunities on the need to apply a gender perspective to immigration and integration policy. If this is not perceived as discriminatory, I also believe that this is due to Mr Moraes' particular background.If we are to succeed in creating a successful immigration and integration policy at European level too, it is absolutely necessary for a gender perspective to be applied at all levels. That is something of which I should like to remind the combined Commission once again. I am aware that Mrs Diamantopoulou and her Directorate-General are working hard on this, but it is necessary for you, Mr Vitorino, as her colleague, to do so too. Quite honestly, I find it just a little bit wearisome having to go on picking up the pieces of the Commission’s initiatives and ploughing the same old furrows.The headscarf debate is in full swing in many places in Europe at the moment. Should we not, however, be looking, rather, at a number of other areas such as better integration, the ways in which we enter into dialogue and the ways in which we give the women concerned power over their own lives. It might then be that the headscarf debate would solve itself.It is important that immigrant women who, as such, are bearers of a culture also be given opportunities without being totally disowned by their families because they want both to embrace their own culture and a European attitude of gender equality in society. If the women are not integrated, there is a danger of their sons or daughters not being so either and of their, in that way, being stuck in outdated gender roles which, in the Europe of today, are of no use in terms either of family life or of the labour market. Think of the emphasis that is now being placed upon the need today also for male managers to be able to incorporate feminine values into their management styles.
Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur for a sound report. The most important conclusion may appear simple: ECHELON does in fact exist. It took a long time for us to establish this, however.Allow me to highlight two aspects of the report. In my view, there is not enough about personal privacy and the protection of individuals. That is why it was good that the rapporteur should have especially emphasised those issues in his presentation. As was also pointed out, management interests are obviously very important, but these are not the whole story.According to certain indices, the surveillance system has not only been used for industrial espionage, but also for intercepting the communications of individuals or organisations. ECHELON has, of course, the capacity to intercept communications such as e-mails, faxes and telephone conversations between individuals. The British journalist Duncan Campbell even believes that ECHELON is used to intercept communications from Amnesty and the Red Cross. If that is true, it is an incredibly serious matter. Just as was stated earlier, the EU will, in that case, have to be able to take action, in common with national parliaments and governments. In a democratic state governed by law, protection of the individual must always come first, just as the President-in-Office of the Council indicated earlier.My second remark concerns encryption. Encryption offers the only effective protection against interception. However, encryption technology is still in its infancy, and there are quite a few barriers to the export of civil encryption systems. Nonetheless, the extensive exchange of information that takes place in Europe lends topicality to the issue of common standards and rules for encryption. The institutions of the EU must be able to act jointly on this issue.
I would like to thank everyone for their comments but I agree most with the comment made by Mr Hänsch. Maybe it is useful occasionally to look at how we set about things here in Parliament. This seems a very enjoyable exercise.
Mr President, debates on this report in the Committee on Development and Cooperation took place in a constructive climate, and I would like to thank Members for the amendments that they tabled and that it was possible to incorporate into this report, thus improving the motion for a resolution put to you.The striking fact of 2003 was certainly that the Joint Parliamentary Assembly could return to a normal rhythm of work following the cancellation of the November 2002 session due to circumstances of which you are aware. On this issue, the result of the mission carried out by the ACP Co-President and four ACP parliamentarians in Harare should be particularly welcomed. They managed to persuade the Zimbabwean Government to agree to the head of its delegation in the Assembly no longer being someone who is covered by the Council’s restrictive measures. The ACP Co-President’s personal commitment to ensuring that only the head of the Zimbabwean delegation can take the floor during the session in Rome should also be welcomed.Aside from this important aspect, six points deserve to be mentioned as regards the work of the Assembly in 2003. The entry into force of the new Rules of Procedure allowed the debates to be better structured. The more informal organisation of Question Time with the Commission, at the sixth session in Rome, proved its worth and led to a livelier debate. It was possible to organise and carry out four joint missions in 2003. The Women’s Forum was a success both at the 5th session in Brazzaville and at the 6th session in Rome. It was possible to significantly improve and deepen cooperation between the Joint Parliamentary Assembly and the United Nations. Finally, two important reports were adopted, one on children’s rights, and those of child soldiers in particular, and the other on the use of the European Development Fund and the discussions initiated on its budgetisation.For the future, Mr President, the Committee on Development and Cooperation basically proposes to invite the Assembly and its Bureau to continue to organise Question Time to make it livelier and more informal; to re-balance the agenda of the sessions and to give more speaking time to Members of the Assembly; to ensure better continuity between sessions by strengthening the facilities of the Standing Committees; to improve the availability of documents, in particular via greater use of the Internet; to develop the role of the Assembly in the implementation of the political dialogue provided for in Article 8 of the Cotonou Agreement; to continue its work on human rights through greater involvement of civil society; to make practical arrangements for sending to Zimbabwe a joint delegation, freely chosen, provided that it can move around freely and meet anyone it wishes; to develop the role of the Assembly as a forum for dialogue with the World Trade Organisation; and, finally to take into consideration the desire of Members of the Assembly that the sessions in Europe take place under good conditions, outside of the workplaces of the European Parliament.To summarise, Mr President, the Committee on Development and Cooperation gives a positive view of 2003. The difficulties of the previous year, which culminated in the cancellation of the session of November 2002, have been overcome thanks to efforts on both sides, in particular from the Co-Presidents and the Bureau of the Assembly. The latter was also able to resume a normal rhythm of work. Improvements have been made to the organisation of its work, allowing it to make its voice heard more clearly and to actively participate in the political dialogue provided for in the Cotonou Agreement. I hope, Mr President, that our Assembly will be able to adopt the report by the Committee on Development and Cooperation.
Mr President, this excellent directive will end the dumping of old cars, encourage recycling, and above all encourage manufacturers to design cars which can easily be recycled. Now who should pay the costs? Whatever system is adopted, ultimately the cost will be passed on to the consumer. The best way of achieving our environmental objectives is to make the manufacturers our instrument both for collecting the money and for disposing and recycling of the cars.The manufacturers have tricked Mr Florenz and Mr Lange into tabling amendments here which seriously weaken these proposals. Do not be fooled by the car manufacturers! If you want the full benefits of this directive use your vote to throw out these amendments.
Mr President, I try to adopt a practical approach to this issue because I have one of the biggest art auction houses outside of London in my constituency. They had raised their fears about these proposals and I went back there recently and we looked at some case studies together. We took paintings from a recent auction that would have been affected by this proposal. With one item there would have been considerable difficulty in tracing the artist's family; only tracing agents and collecting societies would have benefited. In another case, the item would undoubtedly have been sold elsewhere, i.e. in America. The one artist we were able to contact who would have benefited was not interested and said it would all be too complex to help him or his family.I am afraid this leads me to the inevitable conclusion that we do not need this, and that without international agreement in place, it is one piece of internal market legislation that we can do without.
Mr President, as we all remember, the nuclear disaster at Chernobyl occurred on 16 April 1986 and it is still history’s most serious nuclear accident. Radioactive contamination affected people and nature over vast areas in Ukraine, Belarus and Russia, and, furthermore, some present EU countries also suffered. Around the destroyed unit a nuclear shelter was constructed hastily, given the conditions, to halt the spread of the pollution. Inside the deteriorating shelter there are still more than 200 tons of uranium and almost a ton of radionuclides, of which 80% is plutonium.The Chernobyl Shelter Fund was set up in December 1997 to finance the Shelter Implementation Plan, whose purpose it is to protect people and the environment from any new radioactive contamination. The preliminary estimate of the cost of the project for the period 1998 – 2005 was around USD 758 million. The first conference of the parties funding the project was held in New York in November 1997. A total of USD 400 million was obtained in the form of pledges from twenty-five countries, of which USD 50 million was payment in kind from Ukraine. This sum was sufficient for the first stage of the Shelter Implementation Plan. The European Union at the start financed the shelter work with a payment of USD 100 million, which was pledged at the Denver Summit in 1997. This amount came out of the general budget for 1998 – 1999. A second pledging conference was held in Berlin in July 2000 to organise a final contribution to the scheme. At that conference 22 countries in all decided to pledge around USD 320 million and the European Union pledged a further EUR 100 million for the period 2001 – 2004.The report being discussed concerns a proposal for a Council decision on a second contribution by the European Community to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Chernobyl Shelter Fund. The matter before us is thus Parliament’s opinion on the adoption of this regulation. The current financial situation is as follows. In all, USD 716 million has been pledged to the Chernobyl Shelter Fund and this includes USD 50 million from Ukraine as an in-kind contribution. Consequently, the fund still lacks money, as the estimate of costs is rather higher, totalling at least USD 720 – 750 million. For this reason – as this issue is being taken forward – it must be assumed and expected that Ukraine will also be able to organise this second contribution of funds.The problem here is that the budgetary authority in 1998 set a 13% ceiling regarding the use of TACIS appropriations in respect of nuclear safety projects. If this were to apply, the decisions could not be taken at present in the way the Commission and the Council have proposed. However, I support the Commission’s proposal to set aside EUR 100 million for the Chernobyl Shelter Fund as this project’s implementation is of vital importance to the people of the European Union and their safety. I also support the Commission’s proposal that there should be a special budget heading created for it so that the way in which the funds are being used can be monitored.Clearly, it will be difficult to use these funds as people will be working in difficult conditions in which there is a huge number of international players and where the situation is to some extent still vague in the administration of the Confederation of Independent States. All in all, I would nevertheless support this Council proposal, with certain amendments.
Mr President, the budget for the year 2000 is, for the institutions other than the Commission, very simple. The Council has adopted all of Parliament’s amendments. It has also given its approval to Parliament’s own budget through a gentlemen’s agreement, which means they have not interfered in it at all. I would like to express my sincerest thanks for that.In the reading of next year’s budget, however, a position has to be taken on the change which was not in the original estimate. I refer to the situation which was caused by the fact that the Court of First Instance approved the TDI group as a parliamentary political group. According to parliamentary rules, this group has the right to a staff of 14. The Secretary-General obtained the staffing resources by reallocating twelve of the fourteen staff necessary. To make good the difference the Council of Presidents finally proposed two new temporary C5 posts and one A6 post. So that this issue would be debated according to Parliament’s agenda, the Committee on Budgets called for compliance with Article 183. The President sent a preliminary draft for the budget, which the Committee debated yesterday and adopted by virtue of the report on the proposal. This report is now being debated in connection with next year’s budget, and we intend to vote on it tomorrow, Wednesday, when it is hoped the Commission will also present its preliminary letter of amendment in accordance with practice. In this way the Council could debate and approve these matters on Wednesday, so that the issue might be dealt with in connection with the rest of the budget on Thursday 16 December.What has happened does not mean that more money is being asked for next year’s budget, but only to create posts. However, it shows how ponderous and cumbersome our administrative procedures are. There is a total of 1700 different C posts in the European Parliament. Of these, some are vacant and some are to become so. For that reason, it is urgent that we make the current administrative rules in Parliament more flexible, as they hamper the smooth and proper flow of administration. The European Parliament is now adding new posts in connection with the budget now being discussed, which is not consistent with disciplined financial administration – not, at least, if we compare the additions to those in the previous five years. We cannot nor must not, however, leave disciplined budgetary policy to the responsibility of the Committee on Budgets: it is naturally the Council of Presidents and the chairmen of the political groups that bear the greatest responsibility, especially where Parliament is concerned.Finally I would like to say a few words in general about budgetary procedure. The biggest problem this year was category 4: external action. During the debate new items of expenditure were added to it. First there was the EUR 500 million proposed by the European Union Summit conference for Kosovo. Then, later, we had the fisheries agreement with Morocco; and then Turkey and other headings totalling 190 million euros or nearly EUR 700 million altogether, which represents 15% of the financial perspectives. As the budget for 1999 had already very nearly reached its ceiling, it was really quite difficult to suppose that such great degrees of flexibility might be found in other areas of expenditure. Among the members of the Council there had been no desire to alter the financial perspectives, at least up till now, and then not even now, not even by means of transfers between categories. Furthermore, as a counterweight to the use of the flexibility instrument, immense reductions in other areas of expenditure were being and are being asked for. Thus, the task of the Committee on Budgets was a very simple one: to adapt the budget to the financial perspectives. As a result, only EUR 100 million were allocated to Kosovo in the budget at this stage. The Council dropped its earlier estimate of EUR 500 million to 360 million. From this we may draw at least two conclusions. Before aid is promised in the name of the European Union, it would perhaps be in order to check whether the promises can be kept. Such promises, which mean making corresponding cuts elsewhere, have clearly to be considered carefully. The same also goes for long-term programmes. If the EU means to spend EUR 5.5 billion on the reconstruction of the whole Balkans area over the next six or seven years, which is to say EUR 800 – 900 million a year, it would be useful to know how the promise is going to be backed in terms of finance. In this respect, the report by the Committee on Budgets now under discussion is relevant, as it emphasises the need to be realistic.Secondly, the European Union has two budgetary authorities, Parliament being one of them. Parliament has not accepted this duty and these obligations: the Member States have imposed them. As Parliament is one of the budgetary authorities, it also bears a responsibility, and this is a fact that cannot be ignored in the workings of the EU. During the last few days and weeks, the negotiations have been – at least in my view – talk about very minor matters, as nearly each one of the finance ministers of the Member States and even their state secretaries handle certainly much larger sums on their own. In so saying, I do not want to criticise the country holding the presidency, which has certainly done everything necessary to achieve harmony. We need a budget for next year, and it must be achieved. If we do not get agreement we will have to continue the talks in January.Finally, I would like to congratulate the main rapporteur, Jean-Louis Bourlanges, for his excellent work, which is obviously still continuing, and thank him and the chairman of the Committee on Budgets, Terence Wynn, for their good and constructive cooperation and the diverse range of support they gave. Likewise, I wish to thank the group’s coordinators, especially Mr Böge of theGroup and Mr Walter of theGroup for their good cooperation, and all the members of the committee. My special thanks go to Suvi-Anne Siimes, for her role as person responsible for the Council’s budget, and who has really got to grips with her job and applied herself to it conscientiously. I would like to especially thank Heikki Joustie, who was involved as official representative, and who made his own splendid contribution in circumstances that were unusually awkward as far as the international situation was concerned.IN THE CHAIR: MR L. MARINHOVice-President
Mr President, I should like to express my thanks for the broad support given to the main features of this report. Human rights are, of course, indivisible and independent of political parties and national borders. It is therefore important that we in this Parliament should obtain broad agreement on this issue, for a right cannot, of course, be universal if half of Parliament is opposed to it. I should especially like to thank Mrs Swiebel, both for her friendly words today and for the intense collaboration which we have had and which has naturally given her considerable influence. I should like to tell her that I am also delighted to vote for the further amendments which she has tabled and which we shall be voting on tomorrow. I should also, however, like to thank Mr Pirker and Mrs Palacio. I should like to express my gratitude for the broad agreement we have obtained in connection with this report. I think this is commendable, especially this year when human rights have been so high on the agenda of the European Union. Finally, I would say to Mr Krarup that he must withdraw his expression of delight at the change in paragraph 61, because this was an error pure and simple. There are ten words missing from the Danish version. If he reads the English version, he will be able to see what the wording should be.
Mr President, President-in-Office, Commissioner, I am extremely pleased both with the tone of this debate today and with the level of consensus that is emerging among the key groups in the House, a consensus which my Group subscribes to.The challenge of reunification, even more perhaps than that of enlargement is so great that it suffuses and surrounds every debate in this House: this is why there is such depth and intensity to all our debates, including this morning's debate on our own need to prepare for this extraordinary challenge. To create a common space of freedom, security and of values by free choice is something without a parallel among democracies in all of our history. It is a matter of the utmost importance and yet has curiously attracted very little public attention. When we look at Eurobarometer statistics, we see that 60% or so of those who expressed a view say enlargement is not a priority, while only 27% say it is a priority. Moreover, the statistics are getting worse, not better.In the largest state of the Union, the Federal Republic of Germany, only 20% say enlargement is a priority. We as politicians must take possession of this debate and not simply leave it to the bureaucracies, for though it is indispensable to discuss the details of the acquis, this is not sufficient to engage the public.We need a dialogue of politicians and therefore we need to avail ourselves of all the information possibilities that Commissioner Verheugen spoke of in his very reflective and elegant speech today. We need, as Mr Hänsch has said, to provide ourselves with information about the cost of non-enlargement, not simply in terms of finance and budget, but of security as well as, of course, socio-economic measures.It was Franklin Delano Roosevelt, the American President, who once said that we have nothing to fear but fear itself. Much of our debate about fears about enlargement is based on exaggeration, but in order to confront the populists who exaggerate, we must connect with popular politics through reflection. We need the Commission's help here, because even though we have the will, we sometimes lack the ammunition.In respect of the principles involved, we of course support differentiation; of course, we support the principle of equality that there should not be a Europe of different classes of citizenship. My Group has 23 visiting MPs, our 'virtual MEPs', sitting in the gallery now: I welcome all of you to this debate in the House.Finally, the critical thing now is to move to substantive negotiation, and we are making that important step. The critical thing is not to allow frustration to grow among the candidates – that they are always in the anteroom but never quite in the chamber. That is what we must accomplish in this debate, that is the result we must pursue. People joke that after the collapse of the Berlin Wall enlargement is always just five years away. We must show they are wrong. Let us take the first step in that direction during this mandate.
Mr President, I agree with the many speakers before me that what we need more than anything at the moment is a system which enables traceability at all stages of production. Fortunately, integral chain control (ICC) is already well-known in many countries. In my opinion, this is not related to national borders. If certain conditions are met – and I would like to refer to Amendments Nos 60 and 61 concerning the inspection of BSE, as others have done so before me – then the designation “Origin: EU” is sufficient as far as I am concerned. This does not preclude all the other information being added to the label on a voluntary basis. Mentioning the relevant country, region, town, village, and so on and so forth, is fine but let the consumer decide where he wants to buy the product. But it should not be an EU stipulation. If this were to be the case, then this would be a re-nationalisation of Europe’s common market in a sense, and that would be a retrograde step.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to wish Mr Pex, and also the other rapporteurs, luck with their work. We have a saying in Dutch to the effect that many small ones make a big one, by which token many small incidents of pollution are, in time, as important as a major disaster. I might add that we laid down the 'polluter pays' principle a long time ago, and I think that now is the time for us to also say that the 'polluter is penalised', which I think would be very justified.I agree with the text adopted by the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, in that it should be clearly stated that it is the illegal, deliberate discharges that are targeted, and not so much those resulting from accidents involving damage, for an accident is, after all, different from a deliberate discharge. I think that we should draw this distinction.Mr Piecyk pointed out a moment ago that there are already quite a few directives, such as the directive on port reception facilities, which my country has still not yet transposed. I see this as a disgrace and as a situation that we should rectify without delay. A year has now passed. In addition, we must get round to assessing its use, how ships themselves react to it and whether we should not make any changes anywhere to see whether – and if so, how – the directive works.I should also like to refer to the monitoring directive and the use of the black box. We will have to see how we can apply the use of the black box to find out who pollutes, where pollution occurs, and, if necessary, how much pollution is involved. I think that this should also be taken into consideration, because this is a directive that can also be of importance in this connection. I am delighted that discharges on the high seas have been included in the text and that there are no geographical restrictions but that the sea is considered a common legacy which belongs to everyone and where pollution takes place.Everything hinges, of course, on inspections and on the way in which we catch the polluters in the act. I think that a European coastguard can be of some benefit here, or at least, before we reach that stage, improved mutual cooperation by national coastguards, inspections of ships' accounts and that sort of thing. If we can use a satellite to read the number plate of a suspect’s car in a given country, what stops us from using this kind of technology to trace discharge offences in time? When, for example, the Tricolor was salvaged, other ships took advantage of this accident to discharge their oil, for it was established that the oil that washed up did not originate from the Tricolor, but from other ships. We must, in any case, ensure that we draw a distinction between an accident and deliberate pollution.In shipping circles, there is disquiet about the treatment of shipping crew in some cases. In my view, what is happening with the captain of the Prestige is rather nasty, and I hope that we will be able to talk to him again shortly. I have read that a shipping disaster has now struck in Karaj and that the crew are being held criminally liable. We must be careful about this.You are right to say that we worked hard and managed to do a great deal in the previous session. It was frustrating on occasions. Before the Erica package was complete, we were hit by the Prestige, and that is very frustrating. However, Commissioner, I think that Parliament and the Commission, despite opposition from the Council, have managed to obtain a few positive results, and I hope that we can do the same in the next session.(Applause)
Mr President, I represent the north-west of England which, with the cities of Manchester and Liverpool, is I suppose one of the most densely populated parts of the European Union. We have a particular problem with marine flat fish – flounders in the estuary of the River Mersey in fact – which are exhibiting extreme intersex characteristics and we do not know what the cause is. We have a lot of chemical factories around the estuary and suspicion has fallen on them, but the scientists are also looking at the detergents which are used both for industrial purposes and in our own homes. They are looking at oestrogens – synthetic oestrogens in particular – used perhaps in the pill by hundreds or thousands of women in the region. Indeed, they are looking at natural oestrogen produced by women in their millions. It could be a combination of all these things – and this is the difficulty. We do not know the answers and there are more than 500 chemicals from which we could choose.I have doubts about the use of the precautionary principle and of course, about the misuse of the precautionary principle – by its nature we never know when it is appropriate to use it or not. There must be very great concern about the long-term effects of putting thousands of chemicals into the natural environment, but it is difficult to identify exactly which chemicals to target. The evidence of falling sperm counts, of rising levels of breast cancer, of female polar bears growing penises or whatever gives rise to very real fears and we have to be prepared to ban some substances on suspicion alone, even before we have firm scientific evidence.I support both the Commission's proposals and the rapporteur's suggestions. However, we can be sure that there are many disputes to come when we start highlighting chemicals which must be banned.
To me they are similar so we can vote on them together, if possible.
Mr President, Vice-President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, this is a matter for the whole of the European Union, although the majority of speakers on the list are Italian or Austrian. In any case, before I go any further, I would like to say that, as a mountain-dweller, I fully understand the Austrians’ concerns. Furthermore, the situation of Austria and the Alpine question as a whole have come about as a direct result of a transport policy which needs to be completely overhauled, as is clearly indicated in the White Paper which, by pure coincidence, we are going to discuss this very afternoon.There are two requirements: on the one hand, free movement of goods and the single market, and, on the other, environmental protection, road safety and public health – basically, what is meant by the catchphrase ‘sustainable development’. What should our strategy for transport be? Fewer lorries, more trains, a shift away from the transport monoculture, more intermodal transport, fewer roads and road tunnels and more rail tunnels, an overall rebalancing of the situation with due regard for freedom of the market but also taking into account the need for guiding parameters, including clear information on the real costs of transport, and consistent pricing, the freeing-up of resources for rail investments, the development of a European structure for the rail networks through the railways packages, safety guarantees provided by the relevant directive on tunnels and by common rules to make road transport safer; lastly, a growing effort to introduce less-pollutant transport systems, and also, I would say, to finish with, the use of systems such as the satellite system, Galileo, to track fleets of lorries.The Austrian question relates to the Alps but the situation is similar in other mountain ranges such as the Pyrenees too. We are faced with a boom in freight transport, which will expand even further with enlargement. In the past, Austria used this ecopoints system – which was soon to be abandoned – and, after Laeken, the European Council remained strangely undecided until the very end of last year, when a solution was found that was described in committee as a virtual solution, meaning that, in actual fact, the figures were theoretical. That is why a broad majority of the European Parliament, in the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, decided on a plan of action, starting from the assumption that we need to work towards a legal basis consisting, first and foremost, of the Alpine Convention transport protocol, which appears to be the only instrument which would compel the European Union to regulate the flow of lorry traffic in the Alpine region as well. There is a need for a new policy based on the Swiss model.The committee of which I am Chairman has made every endeavour to find a balanced solution. We have consulted the Ministers. We have even had the date for the construction of the Brenner Base Tunnel brought forward definitively from 2021 to 2012. Above all, through the amendments we are tabling before the House, we have endeavoured to find a solution which gets away from the ecopoints system, in any case to find a solution for the period stretching from now until 2006 based on the need, as I said, to take into consideration the provisions of the Alpine Convention and, I would say, more generally, the sensitive areas of the Alps. It is not by chance that Amendment No 15 refers to other areas such as Fréjus in the Alps to the north-west of Italy, to the Mont Blanc region and to the Austrian Alps, in other words to the whole of the Alps, for I believe that this is the overall picture which we must consider. Particularly in Article 13, we have taken great care to achieve the phasing out of heavy goods vehicles, introducing a quota system for 2004, 2005 and 2006, which in 2005 – 2006 will lead to a ban on EURO 0 and EURO 1 lorries, a quota system for EURO 2 lorries and free transit for EURO 3 lorries.Lastly, as regards the amendments, I feel that the Swoboda and Simpson amendments cannot be accepted in that they considerably alter the proposal endorsed by the majority of the committee and that the Rack amendment cannot be accepted because it too completely changes the parameters. I can accept Amendment No 19 tabled by the, which calls for further debate. Lastly, I feel we must reject Amendments Nos 20 and 21 because they too change the proposal completely.I will end, Mr President, by saying that, as Committee Chairman and rapporteur, it was my duty to find a balance. As a mountain-dweller, I might have preferred to go further, but I felt it was right for Parliament to be able to see the current state of the debate.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, clearly the accession of ten new countries to the European Union is set to change the relationship we have with our neighbours. I would like to highlight a fundamental aspect of the Union’s cooperation with our neighbours, that of cross-border cooperation. Cross-border cooperation has played a key role in European integration. It should also play a key role in our relations with our new neighbours following enlargement.It is to be hoped that the new European Constitution will give cross-border cooperation the place it deserves.Our new neighbours can be divided into three different groups. There are the countries of Eastern Europe and the countries of the Mediterranean basin. The Balkan States must be borne in mind too, although further accessions may take place in the future in that area.Cross-border cooperation may not be sufficient to facilitate perfect collaboration with neighbouring countries. We can and must however take advantage of its benefits. It allows us to get to know neighbouring countries, and to understand and trust them. If we know, understand and trust each other, we can work together and improve our relationship. We will be able to export well-being and stability, to quote the Commissioner. These two elements are crucial to the future of both the European Union and of our neighbours.I would also like to draw your attention to the particular case of Kaliningrad, in Northern Europe. This area will become an island surrounded by Member States of the European Union. We therefore need to establish a special system of cooperation with Kaliningrad. As Mr Yegorov, the current governor of the area has said on many occasions, there needs to be a system of cross-border cooperation with both Lithuania and Poland. In my opinion, relations with neighbouring countries from the Mediterranean to northern Russia pose a significant challenge to the European Union.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs – The Committee on Employment and Social Affairs regrets that the Treaty of Nice made far fewer specific changes in the area of employment and social policy than those that it had sought. It hopes that these issues will be addressed by the second report from the Constitutional Affairs Committee and by the next IGC.On the broader institutional issues, presently under discussion, we welcome the report's call for a convention to prepare for the next IGC and for a debate involving the active participation of the European citizenry as a whole. We would ask that the convention engage closely in the course of its discussions with the social partners and with civil society. In particular, we would seek consultation, both within the Member States and with the applicant countries on the issue of the provision of a legal base for the involvement of civil society in the decision-making processes of the European Union.We would also like to see Member States being encouraged to establish fora where citizens can interact with their own Parliament's on the future of Europe. We believe too that up to and beyond the next IGC, there would be merit in joint annual meetings of delegations of committees on employment and social affairs from the European Parliament, from within Member States and the applicant countries and from the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. We hope that a means will be found for supporting such meetings.Finally, we trust that the Charter of Fundamental Rights will be incorporated in the Treaties in a legally binding manner and we look forward in future to wide and active participation in the discussion on the future of the Union.
In the fight for security from terrorism, we have rightly proclaimed that we are defending fundamental values but, if we compromise individual rights in the pursuit of security, we will have sacrificed some of what we hold so dear. In the last two years since Tampere, the programme of cooperation on justice matters has been heavily weighted to the security side of the scales – especially since 11 September with the anti-terrorism package. All this is necessary, but it is time to rebalance the work programme.At the Laeken Summit, Heads of Government should commit themselves to a thorough review of the degree of respect in practice for the standards we have signed up to in the European Convention of Human Rights and the Charter of Fundamental Rights. There needs to be a programme to ensure observance of minimum standards of due process, fair trials in criminal proceedings and approximation of rights of defendants. We should project these standards in our international agreements because there are some worrying developments. In the UK, there are proposals for executive decisions for detention without trial and an attempt to avoid any significant degree of judicial review. In the United States, President Bush has signed an order providing for trial in military courts in the absence of fundamental safeguards for fair trial provided for in international law. The EU must not agree to any extradition agreement with the US whereby people could be convicted in these military tribunals.Finally, the case of the 14 British and Dutch plane-spotters detained for nearly five weeks in Greece without trial is extremely disturbing. They have been denied bail, the evidence has been presented in secret and there has been no transparent schedule of court hearings. They may be guilty at most of a misdemeanour. It will be a disgrace if the European arrest warrant is agreed this weekend and this situation has still not been resolved. I call, in particular, on Prime Minister Blair to withhold agreement if they have not been either charged or released by Friday.
Mr President, I also welcome the progress report from Minister Roche, my fellow conventionnel. It is clear that we are moving on – sharpish – from the fiasco that we had at the summit in Brussels. I trust that it will be possible to reach agreement before 1 May. There are, however, three sets of problematical questions outstanding: the formula for qualified majority voting, the size and shape of the Commission and the scope of QMV. It would be unfortunate if our obsession with those first two great patriotic questions obscured the third – the scope of QMV – which is in some ways more important.The Italian presidency, mainly under pressure from Prime Minister Blair, unfortunately retreated in several ways from the Convention's modest and balanced proposals to extend the scope of QMV and codecision with the Parliament. The Italian so-called 'final compromise package' is not acceptable to the– nor, I suspect, to a majority of this Parliament. Especially objectionable would be a flight from QMV concerning the provisions on social security for migrant workers; the suppression of codecision from the clauses on the framework programme for research and development; the re-insertion of the national veto and the suspension of the legislative rights of this Parliament in the field of judicial cooperation in criminal matters; and the unwelcome supplement to the progressive passerelle clauses of a right of veto for any single national parliament – a certain recipe for frustrating the decisions of the European Council and for bringing on the ultimate sclerosis of the European political system.The Irish presidency is quite correct in saying that all Member States must move for the IGC to be able to succeed and none more so than the British Prime Minister, whichever personality that might prove to be.(Applause)
Madam President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to emphasise certain points that have already been raised. I would stress the support of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, first of all, for speeding up negotiations and achieving a new agreement, which certainly meets the planned schedule and, if possible, speeds it up in order to send a positive message with regard to the good will of the European Union in this integration process. Positive signals have already been sent, including Commission aid of EUR 200 million, which we believe should be supplemented, as stated in the motion for a joint resolution. The use of preferential commercial mechanisms should also be used in order to promote commerce and economic recovery in the region.We believe that this process of greater integration and greater cooperation by the European Union, in conjunction with international financial bodies, should be used to carry out and consolidate the search for robust, credible, rigorous economic programmes to restore confidence in both economic recovery and in investment flow, which the Mercosur economies, and in particular Argentina, clearly need in order to overcome the serious economic, social and political situation they are currently experiencing.We also believe that in the various references that have been made to international financial institutions and to the International Monetary Fund in particular, the Argentine crisis, once again, shows the need for the European Union to act more directly, with its own voice, to address this type of subject within these bodies.
Mr President, I am speaking to propose that this Parliament express its condemnation and rejection of the farcical presidential elections which took place in Equatorial Guinea. The lack of democratic guarantees and the obligation for the voters to indicate how they had voted led all the opposition candidates to withdraw their candidatures two hours after the beginning of the false electoral process.As you know, the current government of Teodoro Obiang did not allow the presence of observers from this Parliament nor international observers at these elections and, therefore, we believe that there are ample reasons for expressing a very firm and categorical condemnation of this electoral parody, which reflects the dictatorship suffered by the people of Guinea. Therefore, in the expectation that the plenum will express its opinion, we believe that, by means of its President or whatever channels he deems appropriate, we must express our condemnation of the lamentable electoral farce which took place yesterday.(Applause)
Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Nisticò, for his cooperation throughout the process of putting this report together. I would like to add to Mr Lund’s comments that what I find unacceptable is the fact that a compromise discussed between two groups, without the participation of the shadow rapporteurs, at least, of the other, so-called smaller groups, is being presented as a parliamentary compromise.Having said that, the liberal group, which I am representing here, considers that the common position adopted by the Council is an excellent compromise. It takes equal account of the concerns expressed by blood donors, in particular with regard to ethical requirements in the field of donations, and by patients, who are demanding that products derived from plasma be available as needed throughout Europe, as has been amply illustrated by Mr Bowis. In other words, any amendment whose effect might be to threaten this balance would appear to be dangerous, and I would add, in particular, that we believe fighting over the obligation for donations to be entirely without remuneration is a mistake, as making voluntary donations the sole method means favouring one national collection system over another, which would be completely counter to the Treaties. Why must we be forced to choose between the German mixed system, for example, the monopoly of the Red Cross in Belgium, or even the French system, which, since the tragic contaminated blood affair, has set up an effective blood monitoring system which many Member States now use as a model? That is not the key issue. The most important thing, and we would stress this, is to promote the highest possible quality and safety standards for donations of blood and blood components, and it is not by extolling the virtues of obligatorily entirely unpaid donations, I repeat, or by proposing assimilation – thus far scientifically unfounded on grounds of both ethics and quality, as stated by Amendments Nos 7 and 10 adopted in committee and Amendment No 26 – that we will be laying down proper foundations for the future of the blood sector in Europe and providing a practical, sustainable solution to the question of self-sufficiency. The liberal group will therefore vote against these amendments. Yes, of course you must listen to voluntary blood donors. Of course their contribution is priceless. But you must also listen to patients when they tell you that no one with haemophilia or primary immune deficiency will inject plasma products that are untreated or of uncertain quality just because they come from voluntary donors. The message we must send here and now to donors and recipients is one of generosity and solidarity. We believe it is unproductive to set their points of view against each other. The main threat to the blood sector and the lives of patients lies in the lack of medicinal products derived from plasma. It is in accepting this reality and accepting all healthy donors without excluding anybody that the battle for self-sufficiency will one day be won in Europe.
Mr President, I want first of all to congratulate Mr Bushill-Matthews on his report. He has produced a good piece of work in spite of difficult conditions, and we in the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party very much agree with his conclusions, as well as with the amendments tabled by the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy. There are, of course, many different ways to create full employment, but this cannot be achieved without economic progress and a high degree of competitiveness. This was also, of course, the conclusion reached by the Lisbon Summit last year which specifically emphasised growth and development as the means to higher employment in the EU. Moreover, every politician has a soft spot for small and medium-sized enterprises. At any rate, that is true whenever we raise our glasses in praise of their importance to economic development and employment.When it comes to everyday practice, however, the reality is all too often different. Far too many obstacles are placed in the way in the form of bureaucratic rules which deter many people from setting up in business. There are not enough incentives to take risks, and this generally impedes development and dynamism. We cannot, of course, get away from the fact that, in general, there is less willingness to take risks in the EU than in the United States, something which is reflected in less dynamic new business development. I therefore also think it is important to ensure that these programmes which, through the European Investment Bank, provide small and medium-sized enterprises with new financing opportunities operate as efficiently as possible in the eyes of the enterprises concerned. The programmes must be made more widely known and linked to other programmes, and it must of course be ensured that the payments are not dragged out, indeed that the programmes operate with a minimum of bureaucracy. Mr Bushill-Matthews’s excellent report and the amendments tabled by the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy contain criticism of experience to date. That criticism should be taken on board so that our friendly feelings for small and medium-sized enterprises do not only find expression in fine celebratory speeches, but also in practice. We must also ensure that the programmes are effective overall, and I am therefore particularly pleased about Mr Bushill-Matthews’s request that the Commission follow up the programmes and examine their effect on employment.
Mr President, I get the impression that too many speakers in this Chamber are referring to the road map without having read it, and that, because of their unfamiliarity with the actual document, they are interpreting it in an ambiguous way.The road map is a plan in three phases. The whole thing is summed up in the title of Phase I – Ending terror and violence, normalising Palestinian life, building Palestinian institutions – and its aim is to bring about an immediate and unconditional end to violence on the Palestinian side. This is the vital point, and if it cannot be achieved everything else will become ambiguous, uncertain and vaguely sermonising in tone. Frankly, it does not make sense to call on Israel to take further or different initiatives in addition to those it has adopted thus far, if acts of terrorism on the part of the Palestinians are not halted. No European state confronted with a series of terrorist attacks, especially against unarmed civilians, would agree not to react using force and legal means of suppressing violence.Nor am I convinced by the exhortations to keep Mr Arafat in place on the grounds that he is the legitimate representative of the Palestinian people, given that everyone recognises that there are still no democratic institutions within the Palestinian community.Yasser Arafat is responsible for the failure of the Camp David agreement and for Abu Mazen’s failure. I believe that we in Europe should adopt a more severe approach towards his behaviour if we are to secure a change in attitude.
Mr President, Commissioner, I shall reply in your language. I should like to thank you for your intervention and to say that I hope that we shall have the opportunity to hear you when you present your report on cohesion, which will not only be about social and economic cohesion, but will now, for the first time, also encompass territorial cohesion.I also believe that territorial cohesion will not be possible without a genuine instrument to strengthen cross-border cooperation. It is clear that the cities and the regions, or in France’s case the départements, have had difficulty in setting up cross-border cooperation programmes, given the differences in legislation that exist between the countries concerned. I therefore feel that it is at European level that we have to design an instrument that makes such cooperation both possible and, hopefully, easy. We await a legislative proposal in this regard, which will contribute towards reinforcing the links between the different countries, in order to dismantle what remains of these borders, described by Robert Schuman as scars of Europe’s history.
Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank Mrs Avilés Perea for her thorough work. She has resubmitted a number of amendments that will receive our Group’s full backing, especially the definition of health. This is an enormous improvement to my mind. Many people, men but also women, still think that violence against women has become a rare occurrence within the European Union. Nothing could be further from the truth. One in five women within the European Union has been a victim of such violence at some time, including in our immediate surroundings. One does not have to look far. There are probably more victims but they never reported the crimes to the police or relief centres. In fact, most incidents of violence occur in the home, which means the phenomenon is less visible. Many women still want to keep their dirty laundry inside. They feel ashamed.The link between violence within the family and child protection is often overlooked. For example, if the court allows contact between the violent partner or ex-partners and their children, then the woman will remain exposed to violence via the children. I would once again draw attention to this fact. The specific aim of the Daphne programme is to encourage and support non-governmental organisations and other institutions to combat all kinds of violence against children and women. I welcome the fact that national measures are to be lent added value. Great! Liberals do not wish to harmonise Member State legislation on violence against women and children. My group, however, is of the opinion that the Member States that are behind in this respect should be encouraged to bring their legislation up-to-date.I also think that the perspective should be shifted. Instead of trying to change the behaviour of women, the behaviour and attitude of men should be examined. This is not about short skirts, Mr President. Awareness and information campaigns on violence against women are desperately needed. This issue should, as far as I am concerned, feature high on the political agenda.
Mr President, I am also just back from the Jenin visit and I share the distress of breaches of human rights law by both sides. We must ceaselessly remind Mr Arafat that suicide bombings are not only morally repugnant but also that they stop us helping him to get a Palestinian State. They play into Ariel Sharon's hands.The majority in this Parliament called two weeks ago for a suspension of the EU-Israel Association Agreement. I support an arms embargo but not sanctions, and I am even more convinced on my return that, while it may satisfy our desire to be seen to be doing something, this is a potential dead end. Presumably, they are meant to work through the Israeli public, feeling the painful bite of loss of exports and jobs, pressurising the Sharon Government to stop its crazy policies. But in Commissioner Patten's interview in Herat on Monday, it was indicated that Brussels was frustrated that the Israelis did not seem to appreciate the EU link. They regard us with distrust, rightly or wrongly.While Palestinians see themselves in a struggle for national liberation from oppressive Israeli occupation, 75 percent of Israelis see themselves as the principal victims, struggling for national survival. I am not commenting on the justification for these two narratives, but how can it help to cut off, as two British professors have urged, academic and intellectual exchanges? These are channels through which we Europeans could convey our experience of using mutual respect to overcome hatreds, helping Israelis and Palestinians strengthen their dialogue. How would it help to stop funding human rights NGOs in Israel? If we suspend the Association Agreement, we will merely reinforce the Israeli perception of a perfidious Europe. What will our exit strategy from trade sanctions be? What conditions would need to be satisfied to restore the Association Agreement? I have not heard anyone explain how that will work.It is much better, in my view, to focus on a different paragraph in our resolution: the need for an international force in Palestine. If our objective is to be effective in achieving a Palestinian State as soon as possible, and establishing peace and justice in the region, we should exert all our diplomatic efforts in that direction and not in suspending the chance for dialogue that we have.(Applause)
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, I would firstly like to say that I am in favour of the two reports, which provide us with a good analysis of the application of both the Cohesion Fund and the Structural Funds in 1999. On the basis of the analysis contained in these two reports, I would like to refer to three points.The first is obvious: the cohesion policy comes within European Union policy and a fundamental element of that cohesion policy is the funds which we are discussing here. The regions which are at a lower level than the European Union average cannot do without these funds, with or without enlargement. It is therefore inherent to the European Union’s cohesion policy that the least-developed regions of the Union receive funds and resources so that they can try to eliminate the current territorial imbalances. As has been said, there is still a budgetary margin in the Union which can be used to meet these needs.The second point is that these reports refer to 1999. There are a series of criticisms about application, which should be taken into account. Let us hope that in 2001, thanks to the action of the Commissioner and his team, the restrictions and shortcomings pointed out may be eliminated.Thirdly, we must bear in mind that the series of statistics analysed and the studies done on the long-term application of the funds in the European Union, with very few exceptions, demonstrate that in the least-favoured regions the level of imbalance in relation to the European Union average has been reduced. Therefore, since we are talking about the future application of these funds, this must be taken into account in the Union’s new policies in this field.
In Burma, generals have for years been keeping their own people in their gunsights, and the opposition in captivity. If the new Prime Minister, General Khin Nyunt, is really serious about his roadmap to democracy, he will immediately release Aung San Suu Kyi and her colleagues and give them an important role in this process. He presented this roadmap a few days ago behind closed doors, without the presence of the media or foreign diplomats. The plan is supposedly to set up a convention for a new constitution, which should lead to fair and free elections. As no information was given as to the how and when of this plan, the only conclusion I can draw is that the military regime is trying to sidetrack the West and is hoping to break out of its isolation. As it must not, of course, be allowed to succeed in this, I support the Council's decision to tighten the sanctions. Any remaining business contacts should be completely severed. The Commission and the Council, in cooperation with the United Nations, should continue to appeal for the immediate release of Aung San Suu Kyi and her colleagues. She has been held illegally for more than three months, during which time she has gone on hunger strike. The international community must make the Burmese authorities responsible for her well-being and the Red Cross must gain access to her. Pressure from the neighbouring countries in the ASEAN – China, India and Japan – must be stepped up. Fortunately, the United States has also been very forthright in its opinion about the current situation and has expressly pledged its support to Aung San Suu Kyi. Burma is still the pariah of the international community. The military junta sees the enforcement of its own power as more important than the suffering of the Burmese people. The generals' roadmap to democracy has so far only led to prison. This is not only about the liberation of Aung San Suu Kyi, but also about the liberation of the Burmese people as a whole.
I should like to give the following explanation of my vote. I could not, for the following reasons, vote for the resolution concerning climate changes and the way in which the Kyoto conference as a whole is to be followed up.The resolution contains nothing about which particular consequences for the climate the unreasonable development of nuclear power has. In my home country, Sweden, the parliament has decided to phase out nuclear power by closing an extremely dependable nuclear power station, Barsebäck on the Sound. According to calculations made, closing this power station will increase carbon dioxide emissions by approximately 3.5 million metric tons per year. This more than doubles Sweden’s contribution to overall CO2 emissions from electricity production.This unwise strategy in my own country has also meant that Sweden has negotiated for itself a quota within the EU, on account of the EU’s commitments following the Kyoto Conference, as a result of which carbon dioxide emissions in Sweden have been permitted to increase by 4%. This is extremely regrettable and remarkable, considering that the EU’s responsibility after Kyoto is to reduce CO2 emissions by a total of 8%.Because these important facts were not dealt with in the resolution, I could not support it.
Madam President, Mr Liikanen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like, first of all, to thank my 12 colleagues in the European Parliament delegation to the Conciliation Committee. I can see Mr Bowe, Mrs Schörling, Mr Lund, and Mrs Van Brempt, all of whom have firmly and vigorously defended consumers’ right to safe, effective flame retardants. This joint text could not have been prepared without the efficient work of the Danish Presidency – who will receive the message – and the Commission either, of course.We have come so far since 16 January 2001, when the Commission submitted this proposal for a directive which, I would remind you, was aimed at prohibiting the marketing and use of pentabromodiphenyl ether alone, a brominated flame retardant used, in particular, in the manufacture of polyurethane foam, a chemical substance that is harmful to our environment and our health. It is found at high concentrations, in particular in breast milk, with a significant risk of contamination in infants. Logically, therefore, at first reading Parliament pronounced itself in favour of prohibiting pentaBDE in all its forms, thus confirming the red card that the Commission had shown it. There was therefore unanimity with regard to this first substance.Having said this, Parliament, in its vote of September 2001, also wanted this proposal to cover the two sister substances, octabromodiphenyl ether and decabromodiphenyl ether. Given the strong indications of the hazardous nature of octabromodiphenyl ether, both for the environment and public health, the European Parliament, once again with a very large majority, pronounced itself in favour of immediate prohibition.Parliament, however, chose to show decabromodiphenyl ether the yellow card, by proposing to defer its prohibition to 1 January 2006 at the latest and make it conditional upon the final results of a risk analysis. This approach strictly applied the precautionary principle and was not, at this point, shared by either the Council in its common position or the Commission in its amended proposal. In this kind of matter, where chemical substances are in the dock, debate is always tricky. We needed to establish a fragile balance between obvious advantages in terms of fire safety and equally proven disadvantages in some cases in terms of health and the environment. It is this balance in risk management, taking account of factors as varied as scientific risk assessment, proportionality and cost-benefit analysis, that was at the heart of the discussions within our Conciliation Committee.Three trialogues were eventually necessary to bring together the various points of view and reach a compromise that was acceptable to all, mainly where decabromodiphenyl ether was concerned, since, I must emphasise, as regards octabromodiphenyl ether, the pressure exerted by Parliament paid off. This pressure contributed to the swift, eventually negative conclusion of the risk assessment and convinced the Council to support us in prohibiting the use of this substance.In the case of decabromodiphenyl ether, the insertion in the joint text of a recital inviting the Commission to immediately assess the results of the risk reduction strategy, expected by 30 June next year at the latest, seems to me to be objectively the first compromise we have been able to achieve at this stage because, in this case, contrary to the case of octabromodiphenyl ether, in the absence of a final risk reduction strategy and, in particular, in the absence of risks to human health – the conclusions of the French rapporteur are definite in this regard – this deferment accompanied by strict conditions is justified. It should, however, be pointed out that decabromodiphenyl ether, which is mainly used in insulating products, in construction and textiles, is a particularly effective, fire-resistant flame retardant. In the United Kingdom alone, in the year 2000, 155 lives were saved and 4 537 injuries avoided by the presence of this kind of substance in furniture upholstery.So much effort has been put into reaching this agreement in the Conciliation Committee. I sometimes had the impression, as rapporteur, that I was acting as a member of the European office for chemical products rather than a representative elected directly by the citizens because of the cumbersome, slow risk assessment process with little transparency. It has taken almost ten years for brominated fire retardants, which are included in the list of priority substances, to be assessed at last.I sincerely hope that this textbook case will enable the Commission and, in particular, the Member States, to understand the need, when preparing future legislation on chemical products, to establish a new assessment method that is swifter, more effective and more transparent, a REACH system which, as proposed by the resolution adopted by Parliament in November 2001, is based on a genuine risk management strategy at Community level.In conclusion, and I shall go back to my footballing metaphor, whereas the Commission, in its initial proposal, only gave half a red card to pentabromodiphenyl ether, Parliament and the Council, as fair, impartial referees, give two red cards to pentabromodiphenyl ether and octabromodiphenyl ether and a yellow card to decabromodiphenyl ether, as the essential aim is to reconcile citizens’ immediate safety from fire hazards with the more long-term benefits in the field of public health and the environment. The joint text to be submitted to Parliament tomorrow fulfils this dual objective. For all these reasons, I would ask my fellow Members to support it.
Madam President, first of all, I should like to congratulate the Commissioner on his new appointment. I hope that he shares our view that mobility in the Member States is more than necessary if we want to implement the Lisbon agenda. The Lambert report and Regulation 1408/71, on which the report is based, are, of course, important instruments in this respect.I am extremely anxious about the wariness displayed by Member States with regard to the implications in terms of their own tax and social security systems. Here, I think, it is worth giving them a push in the right direction in future. That does not necessarily mean that you need to get Parliament’s backing, but mainly that you do need it from the Member States. I should nevertheless like to thank the rapporteur and all those involved. Tomorrow, my group will be voting in favour of the Lambert report.I have to say that I have a great deal of admiration for Mrs Lambert. This regulation contains some valid points. The definition of frontier workers has been adopted; there are improvements in the field of pensions and also the families of frontier workers have not been overlooked. However, that is not all. For example, my country, the Netherlands, has yet again asked for an opt-out in certain sections, one being the medical treatment of frontier workers’ families. We have provided for this in the regulation, but the Netherlands has still asked for an opt-out. I see that as being unacceptable. I think that you should always be the first one to tell your country that it is acting unwisely. That, of course, also applies to other countries that are extremely anxious that, upon the EU’s imminent enlargement, a heavy burden will be placed on their social security.Madam President, Commissioner, I hope that we can, together, realise the ideal of mobility among Member States being promoted, and that first-generation frontier workers will be compensated accordingly and do not always have to fight for their rights. I gather that the President considers I have exceeded my speaking time, but I should very much like to have a good long talk with the new Commissioner about how we could bring this subject into the open more effectively. In my view, this needs a permanent monitoring committee.
Mr President, honourable Minister, Commissioner, sustainable development involves many factors. It is terribly easy to write about wonderful dreams and to use fine words.I would like to see those attending the European Council in Gothenburg dare to point the way forward. I would also like the courageous step to be taken of examining the EU’s own accounts, its own system of subsidies. Mr Blokland addresses this in item 5 and Mrs Hulthén in item 33 of her report, that is, that we need to revise the agricultural subsidies. I am happy to see that the Commission’s declaration is a little more stringent in stating that, when the common agricultural policy is reviewed in 2002, greater emphasis should be placed on quality than on quantity.Agriculture is still Europe’s main industry, with agriculture and forestry being responsible for our cultural heritage, our recreation and biodiversity. The issues are chemicals and nutrients in the water, air quality and public health. So the question must be: How sustainable is the EU’s own subsidy system for agriculture? Is it not time to use some of this money for sustainable development, rural development, protecting biodiversity, removing chemicals and growing food which we can eat happily and safely?If only the EU would dare to take such an initiative, indicate the direction to be followed and declare ‘we will go that way’!
Mr President, almost two years have now passed since October 2000 when the Commission tabled a very good proposal for a regulation on the permitted uses of those parts of slaughtered animals that are not for human consumption. I must say that it was alarming to discover the amount of filth and other peculiar material that found its way into animal feed and the food chain. That is something that is now to be brought to an end.The Commission’s proposal was a good one. Parliament nonetheless made it very significantly better, simpler, stricter and more transparent than it had been at the beginning. At first reading, we had 99 amendments, and the Council accepted 90 of them. At second reading, we tabled nine amendments and, of these, eight were approved. The ninth – a compromise amendment – we eventually saw approved almost in its entirety. We had a proposal, however, in which we instructed the Commission to put forward a proposal and, in that respect, those of us in Parliament no doubt exceeded the limits of our powers. The Commission has nonetheless voluntarily promised to table the proposal we requested.Parliament’s most important tightening-up of the proposal involved a future total ban on ‘cannibalism’ in the handling of animal feed. It will no longer be permitted to feed animals on protein derived from animals of the same species. Researchers now believe that such feeding is a possible cause of ‘mad’ prions that give rise to BSE, TSE, Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease etc.We obtained a total ban on all use of carcasses and parts of diseased animals either as protein meal or, above all, as fat. Such fat is particularly nauseating. Only raw materials declared entirely fit for human consumption will be allowed to be used in feed, cosmetics, medicines etc. It is only in cigarette filters, car tyres and such like that carcass fat will be permitted to be used in the future.We have request and obtained a clear separation of the handling chains for the various animal by-products. It will not, for example, be permitted for by-products declared fit for human consumption to be handled in the same building as by-products not declared fit for human consumption. Instead, there must be clearly separated buildings and clearly separated transport containers. By-products approved as food and by-products not approved as food must not, for example, be dealt with in the same building. Rather, there must be clearly separated buildings and clearly separated transport containers. We have, in actual fact, also succeeded in arranging for all by-products not declared fit for human consumption to be indelibly colour-labelled and, when it becomes technically possible, identified by smell, too. That has been put in place in order to protect our European farmers, for it is impossible to look at a sack of ready-processed feed and see where the protein or fat comes from. It will now no longer be possible, however, to deceive farmers when they feed their animals.I must be allowed to thank all the shadow rapporteurs and all those alongside whom I have been working within Parliament. It has been both enjoyable and inspiring. We have quarrelled, engaged in discussion and reached agreement. There has been a very good atmosphere and good group debates. I would also thank the Commission and, in particular, Mr Colombo for the helpful and intensive technical cooperation offered. I also wish to thank the Council of Minister’s working party and those involved in the Swedish, Belgian, Spanish and, now, Danish presidencies. We have all cooperated and we have done some very good work. I therefore recommend that we unanimously accept the offer of conciliation when we vote tomorrow. It is important that this work now be concluded. The by-products industry employs tens of thousands of people around Europe, mainly in rural districts. It is crucial that its managers now set about the business of investment and conversion and that they be given the opportunity to maintain what is, for us all, a very good industry.
I am satisfied with the reply, but unfortunately I must say that the Russian side seems to have a certain attitude of divide et impera towards the European authorities. In the past, I have even seen a situation where the Council was given one answer and the Commission another, and they play on the fact that the presidency changes. I could also quote yesterday’s answer from the Commission to a similar question: 'Unfortunately, over recent months the Russian side has neither confirmed its willingness to sign nor given any indication of the nature of the problems holding up their signature.'I regret to say I have a feeling that the Russian side will continue to delay. I would therefore appeal to the Danish Presidency to exert considerable pressure if necessary. At the same summit where this agreement was not signed, Russia was still accepted as a market economy. Is there no similar way to achieve what is now needed?I would like to thank Mr Haarder for the commitment he showed to the Northern dimension last week.
Mr President, President-in-Office and Prime Minister. So the day has finally arrived which we all, but particularly you, have been looking forward to and preparing for since you became Denmark’s Prime Minister. I am proud both of Denmark and of you. As a liberal, it is with particular pleasure that I stand here today. Now we have a liberal president of the Council, of the European Parliament and of the Commission. That is a good starting point for getting the working programme of the presidency implemented.Enlargement overshadows all else. We liberals have been fighting for enlargement since the fall of the Berlin Wall. It will secure the new democracies of Central and Eastern Europe their rightful place in the future Europe. Getting enlargement completed on schedule will require not just political skill, but also plenty of hard work. I know from personal experience that the President—in-Office can deliver both, and thus close the circle from Copenhagen to Copenhagen. As a Danish liberal I hope that successful enlargement can lead to Denmark again becoming a full member of the EU. It may seem strange to work towards giving new countries access to full European cooperation when you yourself come from a country that has remained outside the sphere of influence in certain areas. But Denmark’s own foot-dragging in the EU will in no circumstances hamper enlargement. Enlargement will give Europe’s new citizens rights. It is our duty – but a duty that we are happy to comply with – to give these new EU citizens the same rights as we ourselves have. An EU citizen can go out and get work anywhere. Our new citizens must have this right from day one.I would like to wish the presidency every success in its work on implementing one Europe. I am convinced that it will succeed. We in the Liberal group will do everything to help it to do so.
Mr President, it is great to hear the Commission, the Council and Parliament commit themselves so strongly to enlargement, as has happened here today. Beneath the happy surface, however, there are of course anxieties, also on the part of the people in the candidate countries, and we must listen to these. As the Commissioner also said, these anxieties cannot be conjured away. We must not in any way postpone enlargement, but we must listen to countries’ requests for transitional arrangements, whether on the subjects of land purchase or the environment.An agreement is only sound if both parties are satisfied. We must not make demands of others that we do not make of ourselves. I am thinking in this context, for example, of the environmental demands for waste water treatment with which Brussels does not yet, of course, comply. We must therefore be willing to listen to those countries which wish us to be flexible. Enlargement is not merely a gift to them on our part. It is also a gift from them to ourselves. We want them to accede to the EU with their values and their knowledge of what it means not to have freedom and democracy, for that is the most important thing of all. It is perhaps they who know most of all about this, for it is they who have experienced the loss of freedom and democracy.
Mr President, it is obvious to us, too, that increased prices lead to a drop in the consumption of tobacco products, particularly cigarettes and hand-rolling tobacco. The situation in the United States and Sweden, where excise is very high and consumption relatively low, illustrate this trend, as well as a study conducted by the World Bank. In two previous resolutions from 1996 and 1997, the European Parliament left no doubt as to the fact that it is seeking an upward harmonisation of tobacco prices by means of increased excise duty. As the Commission proposes in the explanatory note, the new minimum excise amount in euros for cigarettes is based on the average excise yield in the Member States, namely EUR 90 per 1 000 cigarettes and subsequently reduced to EUR 70 per 1 000 cigarettes in order to prevent the majority of the Member States from having to increase their excise duties. It is, in this connection, once again worth mentioning that the excise yield in nine Member States is even more than EUR 70 per 1 000 cigarettes. This is why my group is opposed to a further reduction.In our view, Commissioner Bolkestein’s proposal is a big improvement on the current situation. He already mentioned health aspects during previous discussions a few months ago. We would like to further reinforce this aspect. We have tabled a number of amendments, in conjunction also with Mr Blokland. Firstly, there is the VAT issue in respect of which the rapporteur has submitted proposals which we support. Secondly, we believe that this matter should be firmly placed in the context of existing negotiations in the World Health Organisation. We are of the opinion that more should be done to combat differences in smuggling prices, since they form one of the reasons for fraud and smuggling, although they are not the only reason. In our view, a system should be considered during the four-yearly review by means of which the use of more harmful products can be discouraged. In the final analysis, and I am taking this opportunity to repeat what I have said before, it remains an unacceptable anomaly, on the one hand, to increase the excise duty on tobacco products, although partly for health reasons and, on the other hand, to continue to heavily subsidise tobacco growing in the European Union.
Mr President, Commissioner, President-in-Office of the Council, the budget for 2004 is in many ways a complicated budget because enlargement will happen part way through the year. If we were so successful at putting the budget in place, it was of course due to the splendid cooperation between the institutions and, of course, to fantastic contributions from the rapporteurs, the coordinators and our chairman, Mr Wynn, who is truly adept at cooperation. Our success should be honoured and appreciated and not be greeted with attacks on Parliament’s budgetary authority.I wish especially to emphasise three things about this budget for 2004. First of all, we put enlargement in place. Secondly, we found the EUR 200 million for Iraq. It is now that the Iraqis are short of money. In the longer term, Iraq is of course a country rich in resources that can fund its reconstruction itself. Thirdly, I wish to mention a lesser, but nonetheless important, matter for the next few years. This budget placed special emphasis on the decentralised agencies, so we can sincerely welcome last week’s summit, where something was in fact decided. At long last, domiciles were established for a whole series of agencies following the failure to decide about this matter at numerous summits. About time, too.A steady stream of new agencies is now being set up, and the good thing about these decentralised units is that they guarantee expertise, concentration upon a particular area and the arms-length principle when it comes to administration. The problem, however, is that the many agencies may lead to unduly large expenditure on administration, both because we obtain small units that are expensive to administer and because we use the action appropriations for these agencies. It is therefore good that, with this budget, Parliament has emphasised that we wish to have control over the development of the agencies in the future, and that we wish to have transparency.
Mr President, although this is an annual stocktaking we are close to the five-year assessment of the achievements of the Tampere programme and thought now needs to be given to Tampere II. We have to say that the Commission has done its job, but the Council's record is not outstanding. Both output and method need improvement.Looking first at asylum and immigration, we still do not have all the pieces of the jigsaw in place for common policies. Europeans need to have a sense that we are truly acting together to have well-regulated but fair systems in which responsibility is shared. But where is the solidarity in the disgraceful way that, one after another, 13 Member States have signalled they will impose restrictions on free movement from new Eastern Member States?States have been more zealous about toughening borders and deporting illegal immigrants and on making sure immigrants are legal and integrated. The Council passed a grudging directive on long-term immigrants and one on family reunification. However, there has been no rush to implement the 2002 anti-trafficking framework decision to catch the criminal gangs, and recently in the UK 19 Chinese immigrants tragically died. It appears they were trafficked, but there is no law in place.We have major challenges in Europe in addressing prejudice and discrimination and promoting equality. The challenge to integrate the Roma looms large on our agenda.I am delighted President Prodi is holding a seminar on anti-Semitism next week, but why has the Council failed to agree the framework decision on making racial harassment and racial attacks criminal offences?We need to enhance our understanding of what integration means as opposed to assimilation. Yesterday the French National Assembly voted overwhelmingly to ban the hijab and other overt religious symbols. We in Britain, where policewomen can wear the hijab, look on this with cross-Channel bewilderment.In the area of anti-terrorism and law enforcement, there has been much useful activity, but a lack of balance in concern for civil liberties, democratic accountability and transparency. I am delighted the European Police College will be located in England, but less impressed that the UK Government, with 12 citizens and residents in Guantanamo Bay – half the total of Europeans there – has failed to take the lead in getting a common position and joint action by the European Union to persuade the US to apply international law and uphold prisoners' rights there. The Mutual Legal Assistance Agreement that was signed with the US, over our objections, stressed the rule of law, but does not seem to have borne any fruit.Now we are taking too many steps invading personal privacy – agreeing to let the US access sensitive air passenger data and to put biometric data on visas and passports – while making no efforts to get an instrument for data protection in the third pillar. This shows an extraordinarily cavalier attitude to individual rights.In the future we will need to make more of an effort to raise the quality of our observance of justice systems through a process of mutual surveillance and peer review. That is going to involve some interesting questions about where the balance lies between European common action and intervention in national systems. But we have to reinforce our efforts, because the quality of what we are doing on freedom, security and justice is not yet adequate.
Mr President, Commissioner, the situation in Tunisia gives real cause for considerable concern. At least 1 000 people are still imprisoned for the sake of their views. Human rights activists, trade union members, academics, journalists and students report constant harassment by the authorities. Despite the fact that Tunisia signed up to the UN convention against torture as far back as 1987, torture is becoming increasingly widespread and institutionalised in the country.We in liberal camps are very concerned at this development. We wish to highlight three specific problems. The legal proceedings against Professor Moncef Marzouki and the lawyer, Nejib Hosni, have been mentioned here. These will now be started at the weekend and on Monday. The reasons for prosecution are very unclear. The legal proceedings must naturally be made open and just.The second problem is actually only part of a pattern of harassment. It concerns the dissolution of Tunisia’s League for Human Rights. This organisation is the very oldest in the Maghreb region and the action has given rise to protests the world over. Ambassadors have protested on behalf of the UN. Members of the organisation are harassed and have been prevented from meeting, with disproportionate police action. Sympathisers with the movement abroad have been prevented from returning. What crimes they are guilty of is unclear and the action should be dropped.Finally, we are greatly concerned at the condition of those prisoners who are on hunger strike. Last week one of the prisoners, Rached Jaidane, fell into a coma. His family have been given no information as to his condition. The young student Béchir Habid has been on hunger strike since 18 October. His condition is very, very serious. He needs to receive care and be released immediately.The cooperation between the EU and Tunisia is positive. It must be maintained and developed. However, this requires Tunisia to respect agreements entered into, including those which encompass clauses on human rights. To discuss these matters I would like the Commission to take the initiative to convene an extra meeting of the council on EU-Tunisian association in order to discuss the matter of human rights as soon as possible.
On behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, I would like to express our position on Mrs Avilés Perea’s report and explain why we decided to abstain.We believe that if a Parliamentary Committee decides to adopt an own-initiative report, the report should, on the one hand, be on a subject not tackled by other committees, and, on the other hand, be adopted as a result of a broad consensus within the same Committee. That was not the case with this report.Topics such as immigration and trafficking in human beings deserve to be investigated in more depth and should not be treated in such a cursory fashion. The Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs will be investigating these issues in the near future on the basis of a Commission communication on immigration in the European Union.The subject of globalisation was not tackled, whereas it should have been at the centre of the report.Politically speaking, we are in favour of closer relations between the EU and countries bordering the Mediterranean. However, a concept such as Euro-Mediterranean citizenship, which has no legal basis, could lead to legal confusion.Our position does not mean that the problem of female migrants and their standard of living in the EU does not give us cause for concern. We should, however, have liked this problem to be approached in a different manner.- Gemelli report (A5-0059/2001)
Mr President, my report is a draft response by this Parliament to two legislative acts: a proposed Council framework directive on combating terrorism and a proposed Council framework directive on the European arrest warrant and surrender procedures between Member States. Together with the creation of the European judicial authority, Eurojust, these two measures form the legislative basis of the European Union's response to the menace of terrorism.The European Union may allow itself a few moments of satisfaction. These measures represent a major step forward towards the creation of a European judicial space. I would like to thank the President-in-Office for reminding us that this judicial space did not start on 11 September last year, although it would be churlish not to recognise that the attacks on New York and Washington on 11 September gave a political momentum which allowed us to knock heads together and overcome certain objections. Many of us regret that such a stimulus was needed. Nonetheless we welcome the progress it has brought.What do these measures do? The European arrest warrant applies to a wider range of offences than previous extradition agreements. It makes surrender a judicial, rather than a political process. It largely abolishes the dual incrimination principle. It sets a time limit of 90 days for extradition, giving us the chance to judge all suspects of an offence at the same time. It consolidates the idea of European Union law. The framework decision on terrorism makes terrorism an offence in every country. Currently it has been an offence in only six. It defines for the first time in international law a terrorist act and the offences which constitute a terrorist act. It seeks to approximate laws with common minimum penalties. I commend these measures to the House.The terrorist threat is deadly serious. It requires a serious response. These two measures constitute such a serious response. I regret – and we have in previous debates here regretted – the absence of proper democratic oversight and control of the Union's procedures of law-making in this area. This House argued for the invocation of Article 42 of the Treaty, allowing these measures to be brought within the first pillar. Nonetheless, we recognise that the process of debate has brought improvements, that our amendments at the first reading have introduced certain safeguards into these measures. I welcome the words from the President-in-Office of the Council about closer involvement of Parliament in the process of passing such legislation.Other measures, such as the freezing of assets, have been far less coordinated. Indeed, it is not unfair to say, from reports of Coreper meetings, that the European Union has been all at sea in its approach to freezing of assets and other decisions. The motion for a resolution on the table today reflects that.We know since the end of the 1990s that three phenomena – terrorism, internationally organised crime and corruption – are increasingly linked. What academics have called the terrorist criminal nexus is well established. The fight against the terrorist criminal infrastructure must be our top priority. We know, too, that internationally organised crime is by far the biggest factor, economically and probably politically, in this terrorist criminal nexus. Money laundering represents between 2 and 5% of aggregate global GNP. That is between EUR 500 billion and EUR 1.5 trillion. It is not enough just to freeze assets of terrorist groups. We must fight the economic dimension of terrorism if we are to get on top of the problem.The United Nations has started to do this through its financial action task force. The recommendations from the Washington meeting of 30 October to be implemented by June of this year are essential and provide an area where we can work together with the United States of America in combating this threat. But here I would appeal for the European Union to take the initiative: to take the initiative on ways forward, to try to bring the Americans back into the international community in this fight against terrorism, and to do so within a proper legal framework, with proper democratic and parliamentary control.A number of amendments have been submitted to my report. Amendments Nos 1 and 5 are identical and they cause me no problem. Amendment No 2 which comes subsequent to our adoption of the report in committee seems to be slightly out of context and I recommend a vote against. Amendment No 4 calls for the establishment of a European habeas corpus act. My group will support this, as we did in committee, although we consider the reintroduction of the amendment to be rather like adding too much monosodium glutamate to the cooking. But Amendment No 3 is the crux of the debate: the movers say that the European Union should not proceed without the guarantee of adequate standards in procedural law. That means that the Union cannot respond to the terrorist threat. I disagree with them. We must respond. But, in giving our agreement, we do so on the basis of faith that these measures will be rebalanced with procedural guarantees.This matter is very poignant to me personally. Faith is not a comfortable basis on which to proceed in politics. I am aware that my name, and perhaps the name of my party, may be associated with laws that could be used for repressive purposes. I appeal to the Council and Commission, in the spirit of the new relationship that we have between our institutions, to move rapidly to consolidate the necessary move forward in security with measures to promote freedom and justice on which the European Union will be judged.In commending these framework directives to the House, in recommending that we trust the other institutions, I say to them: you are on trial. The European Union is on trial before the court of world democratic opinion.(Applause)
Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, I should like to congratulate Prime Minister Persson on an ambitious and results-oriented programme. I hope it means that the EU will take several steps forward and that it will also reinforce the image of the EU in Sweden.Among the issues closest to people’s hearts, one of the most important nowadays is that of food safety. I have noted that the Prime Minister has expressed his hesitancy about eating meat in view of the ways in which animals and meat products are treated. Despite the fact that I am an old farmer and an inveterate meat-eater, I can nowadays understand people who feel like that.Parliament will be adopting positions on some eighty food safety directives. We are now beginning to discuss the proposal for a European food authority. I would be interested to hear what the Prime Minister’s attitude is to such an authority.In a common market, common rules and regulations as well as common controls, and – if the rules are not followed – a common system of sanctions are required. Such an overall solution requires more than the proposed food authority. My opinion is that it has to function in cooperation with the EU’s Food and Veterinary Office in Dublin and with the Commission. Within the sphere of influence of such a triangle, advice and consultation, risk assessment, risk management and sanctions could be dealt with within the framework of existing regulatory mechanisms and could provide an identical level of food safety throughout the Union. I hope to have the support of the presidency for this idea.
Mr President, I would like to focus in my speech on Mrs Lalumière’s report, which I think is clearly worded and well put together. The decision taken at the Helsinki summit to establish a rapid reaction force has been interpreted in different ways by the Member States. In Finland and Sweden they speak about crisis management, which in these countries chiefly means a traditional peacekeeping operation. Mrs Lalumière’s report reflects the thinking of many NATO countries, according to which a rapid reaction force would very quickly develop into a fully-fledged army capable of warfare. It would have at its disposal, among other things, heavy transport aircraft, aircraft carriers, cruise missiles, and in-flight refuelling for long-distance bombing missions. The Finnish people have not been told anything about this. In my opinion, Europe’s military identity should have been established in the context of NATO, then the EU could just stick to the task of crisis management. I cannot approve of the EU becoming a military alliance and a military superpower. Now that the development of the EU’s military dimension has begun, it is wise to aim for a situation where the Union should be internally differentiated in this area also. The NATO countries could form a defence organisation within the framework of the Union that would function as a strong European pillar of NATO. In this way other EU Member States could keep to their traditional peacekeeping activities.I cannot accept certain details of Mrs Lalumière’s report, and in the final vote I shall support its rejection.
Mr President, we are able to support the rapporteur’s opinion, but I should like to make a few comments. We agree that the investigations which have been made into animals’ health are of decisive importance to our resolution and are also of decisive importance to the fact that BST ought not to be used here in the EU. That is to say, we support Article 1. When we talk about public health, however, I must however say that we still have a number of problems with the results of the seventeen scientific investigations which were not able to distinguish the naturally produced BST hormones from the artificially manufactured ones. We ought not to push these scenarios further than can be justified by the scientific evidence.Articles 2 and 3 deal with continued licence to produce the BST hormone here in the EU. In my opinion, we are coming close here to practising a double standard. When I think about everything that was said here this evening and in recent months about BST hormones, of the trade war with the United States and about American beef produced using hormones, I feel we are near to courting a double standard, when these hormone preparations are manufactured here in Europe and subsequently sold to the United States which then uses the BST hormone. I cannot therefore support the wordings of Articles 2 and 3.
Mr President, we have come a long way, if I might put it like that, and we have moved a long way from the rapporteur’s original draft, which adopted a global approach, and which due to its lack of balance, failed to make any significant contribution to the cause of peace. In other words, the report that is now being proposed, which has been discussed, amended and is more moderate, puts my mind at ease and even satisfies me on many points. I thank the rapporteur for having added some water to his wine, if I might use that expression.Having said that, there are still at least three paragraphs that I cannot accept: paragraph 18, which calls both the Palestinian attacks and Israeli military repression terrorist acts and lumps them together, and I also wish to speak out against my communist fellow Member who has just called the United States a terrorist nation. I am also unhappy with paragraph 40 which, in a dishonest and shocking way, sets the Palestinian and Israeli education systems on a par with one another and lastly, paragraph 65, which once again, as I often have to say, raises the threat in this Parliament of suspending the agreement, a measure that would be counter-productive for the little chance of peace that exists. It is for the sake of balance that I will be voting against most of the amendments, not, for example, because I approve of the Israeli raid into Syria, but because I would have liked those who denounce it here and now to condemn the horrific attack in Haifa – which caused nineteen deaths – with the same virtuous indignation. Nothing has been said about this, however, or about the anti-Semitic words of the Malaysian Prime Minister, which are scandalous and unprecedented at this level. We are very far from having the balance that preceding speakers have advocated, Mr Poos in particular.I wish to say one final thing, Mr President, on the Swiss agreements which, of course, I welcome, as I welcome any initiative for peace. I do, however, have a closing question: why did we not applaud Taba to the same extent, where the proposals on the table were more or less the same, but on that occasion made by the elected Israeli Government?(Applause)
Mr President, as was mentioned before, this is indeed a welcome agreement. I much enjoyed working with my colleagues, Mr Gargani, Ms Frassoni, Mr Swoboda and other colleagues in the Council and Parliament, even though it was a painfully protracted process. We arrived at an agreement which is a lot better than many of us expected at the beginning.As has been said by a number of speakers, it is not a perfect agreement. No agreement is perfect. It is a bit of a mixed bag. As Monica Frassoni said, there is a bit of 'blah blah'; there are some slightly vacuous passages, but there are also some incredibly important procedural advances.For a minute or two I should like to focus, if I may, on what happens next. There is no point in reaching this agreement on paper after all these months of protracted talks if we do not transform the advances we agreed upon into a practical effect as soon as possible. I should like to emphasise two aspects where I think we need to look for follow-up as soon as possible. Firstly, paragraph 36 of the agreement says that 'within six months of the date upon which this Agreement comes into force, the European Parliament and the Council, whose task it would be as legislative authority to adopt at the final stage the proposals for simplified acts, need to modify their working methods by introducing, for example, ad hoc structures with the specific task of simplifying legislation.' That is a very important objective and it will be quite tricky to achieve. I urge both Parliament and our colleagues in the Council to make sure that the deadline of achieving the process of simplification is indeed met within the six months specified here.I should also like to refer you to paragraph 30. It deals with something that everyone knows is close to my heart, which is the advance I hope we will make in conducting impact assessments across all three institutions. The text says 'As soon as possible after this Agreement is adopted, the three Institutions will carry out an assessment of their respective experiences and will consider the possibility of establishing a common methodology'.Monica Frassoni's commentary on this agreement is absolutely outstanding in its clarity and fairness except in one respect, where I think she is a little negative about the potential of reaching agreement on impact assessments. My own feeling is that there is simply no way that we will achieve the general principles referred to in the common objectives in the agreement - namely legal certainty, the promotion of simplicity, clarity and consistency in the drafting of laws - if we do not make rapid progress – as called for in paragraph 25 – in establishing a common methodology to have environmental, social and economic impact assessments, not only attached to draft proposals from the Commission, but also in significant amendments tabled by ourselves and by the Council of Ministers.I hope that there will be some sense of urgency over the next few months to achieve real, practical progress on the back of the agreement, and especially on these two important objectives of simplification and impact assessments.
Mr President, the first amended budget for 2004, which is to be voted on shortly, relates to the accession of the new Member States on 1 May this year. The Committee on Budgets has already approved this budget unanimously and, in principle, Parliament as a whole rubberstamped everything as long ago as December last year. For legal reasons, we now have to make this official, which can be done presently. I should like to point out that the observers in the Committee on Budgets have played a very active and constructive role in drawing up the budget with regard to the new countries, and we as the Committee on Budgets have increased certain payment appropriations. Some people in the Council always think that Parliament is too generous when it comes to money and has, so to speak, a hole in its pocket. I should like to draw your attention to the fact that with the enlargement through the accession of ten new countries, the percentage of the gross national income that is spent on the European budget is 0.98%, the lowest percentage since 1990. This leads me to think that Parliament is good with money. If you will be voting ‘yes’ – and I hope that you will do so in large numbers – then nothing will stop us financially from including all new Member States in the European Union on 1 May of this year.
Mr President, as a Member for a peripheral maritime region, I would also like to express my solidarity with the Galician fishermen affected by the Prestige ecological disaster.Secondly, I would like to say, as a member of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, and a substitute member of the Committee on Fisheries, that four aspects are significantly affected by this disaster. I would therefore like the Commission and in particular the rapporteur, Mr Izquierdo Collado, to ensure that this White Paper on transport takes into account, for the year 2010, something that concerns me and that a Member from the Canaries, Mr Medina, mentioned to me today: the failure by many ships, both Community and other, to follow routes which avoid the exclusive economic zones in certain regions, such as Galicia.
Madam President, I would firstly like to compliment you on the fact that you have kept your word and that, during this first part-session of the new year, the number of television channels in our offices has indeed increased considerably. But, Madam President, my personal request has not been met. Although there are now two Finnish channels and one Portuguese one, there is still no Dutch channel, which is what I had requested because Dutch people here like to be able to follow the news too when we are sent to this place of exile every month. I would therefore once more ask you to ensure that we get a Dutch channel as well.
Mr President, I speak first on behalf of the committee and will speak later on behalf of my group. In finally presenting this report to plenary on behalf of the Legal Affairs Committee, there are many people I should and will thank, but there is one whose inspiration I would especially like to mention because I hope it will set the scene for our debate tonight.As a young lawyer in London in the early 1980s, I was privileged to work with a then elderly German lady, who was one of those remarkable German-Jewish immigrés who came to London in the early war years and entered the English legal profession. This amazing lady not only qualified as an English solicitor, having previously qualified in Germany, but, as a true European of her own generation, she also obtained a doctorate from the Sorbonne the title of which was the mutual recognition and enforcement of judgments. She inspired me with an interest in this area of law and as she gradually retired and handed over her practice, I became more and more familiar with the workings of the Brussels Convention as it came into force in the UK. I hope she would approve of where we have got to today, and how the European Union is now able to allow lawyers to move and practise in other Member States by choice rather than force of circumstance and that by this regulation our committee will further assist a step forward in giving greater access to justice to our citizens across Europe.I want to use this occasion to say something about the importance of what we are doing here. The original EC Convention on Jurisdiction and Judgments of 1968 was an important landmark in this field of international private law, marking a departure from a previous patchwork of mainly bilateral treaties between various countries. For the first time, by way of an intergovernmental convention, the EC gave itself a special, unique and comprehensive regime of recognition and enforcement.We are now participating in the next important landmark in that process – seeing what was a convention become a Community act, a regulation, in one fell swoop bringing a previous area of private international law into Community law and more importantly into the internal market. How fitting that it should be our committee, with its new competence in this legislature bridging the themes of legal affairs in the internal market, that should have had to deal with this new Brussels regulation.The committee has been at pains throughout this process to point out and highlight the importance of the internal market dimension of this proposal which gives us a chance to ensure even more strongly than before that our businesses and citizens can have confidence that contracts and obligations they enter into across the Union will be upheld by a common framework of procedural law on jurisdiction and enforcement. We are making progress towards a system of civil law and justice that will give ease and certainty of access across Member State boundaries, at last beginning to make a reality of the area of freedom and justice proposed at Tampere.The issue that has, of course, taken most of the committee’s time and attention has been the fact that this proposal for a regulation has coincided with the growth of e-commerce which in itself offers enormous opportunities to business and consumers within the internal market. The committee has, as the Commission will be well aware, grappled long and hard with the issues raised in Articles 15 and 17 of the proposed regulation. That is to say where there is a dispute between a business and a consumer, whose court should the parties have recourse to. These two articles, in whatever combination, have to be read together.The Commission proposal in line with previous consumer protection legislation took the view in dealing with Article 15 that all such disputes should go to the consumer’s court whilst willing to defer to a general proposition that contracts concluded at a distance should fall under this category. The committee has been searching for a way of protecting Europe’s growing e-commerce sector and especially small businesses from exposure to 15 different and diverse legal jurisdictions. The committee has therefore opted by a small majority in favour of the option of Article 17a which modifies the general principle in Article 15. This modification allows parties in a B to C contract to contract in favour of the seller’s jurisdiction. This was felt to uphold the freedom of contract of the parties but addition there is another element to which I will now turn.I believe the committee’s most fundamental contribution to this debate will be the introduction of the reference of such B to C disputes to ADR or EDR. This has been generally agreed to be the best way to neutralise the difficult discussion about whose jurisdiction can apply. There can be no doubt that the Brussels Convention made enormous strides in simplifying the jurisdiction rules applicable to cross-border disputes but they are still a lawyer’s dream and a litigant’s nightmare. They have not created real ease of access to justice.The opening up of a simple effective system of cross-border disputes is the committee’s goal in introducing the concept of ADR and we welcome the way in which this has already been picked up and worked on by the Commission. There was also agreement in committee that in this evolving area we remain deeply concerned as to the impact of legislation on Europe’s e-business. Therefore, in line with the E-commerce Directive, we have asked for a two-year review.I have covered the main aspects. I wish to conclude with a note of thanks to my colleague on the committee, especially to our chairman who I know feels as passionately as I do about this area of law, whatever our differences, but my biggest set of thanks must go to the committee secretariat and to Mr Robert Bray for all his help and advice throughout this process.
Mr President, this is a little reminiscent of a Greek tragedy: whichever option you take, it always has a bad ending. I think we are facing one such tragedy. The goal, on which we are all agreed, is clear. Consumers must have the choice: either with GMO or without, and the label must guide them in a clear and reliable manner. In that respect, we have to make a judgment to some extent on the basis of evidence on paper. We must develop a system which we can rely on, which does not necessarily involve scientific tests alone.Our group does not want to label processing aids. We are still in discussion about products from animals that were fed GMOs at some stage. However, if we include these two aspects, then we will have to label just about everything, and I wonder whether we are helping the consumer in this way. Will he still be able to see the wood for the trees? This is why we call for a system of non-GMOs, which is, in fact, already being used as a sales point by a number of distribution chains. The key problem we will be facing in respect of paper evidence will be fraud. In my view, if we do not set up a sound and reliable system – since we are mainly dealing with countries outside of the Union – then we had better brace ourselves for the first scandal.As for the threshold value, my group will be endorsing 0.5% or lower for accidental presence.The Eurostat figures clearly show that most consumers want effective labelling. Should we, however, follow the Commission’s system? Does it provide the necessary guarantees for checking paper evidence in a number of products in total trade? Are we then certain that we will have a really good label? My second question is, if we introduce maximum labelling, so including enzymes and animal products, will we not start labelling nearly every single product, and does this benefit the consumer at all? In my view, the best combination is a non-GMO label along with a label which features a GMO for products in which these are present. This system is not watertight either, nor perfect, but I think that my version of the Greek tragedy will claim the least number of victims.
Mr President, Commissioners, this is an extraordinarily interesting time for agriculture. Two events are particularly important. The first is, of course, enlargement as the overarching consideration. The second is the draft mid-term review. An absolute distinction must be drawn between these events. They must not be merged together, as was done by Mr Goodwill a little while ago. Nor is that the aim. The 2003 budget is not influenced by the mid-term review. Nor is it intended that the mid-term review should have a particularly great influence upon the budget subsequently. What is interesting, rather, is that we are beginning a process of discussing the future of agricultural policy.I was delighted to see that Mr Färm’s report demands a fair and sustainable agricultural policy and praises the Commission’s proposal. I share that perspective and I wish, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, to explain that we fully support that assessment.I was alarmed, as was Mr Goodwill, to read in the Financial Times yesterday that seven agricultural ministers clearly defend the agricultural policy in its present form. It is as if they are on a different planet. I hope that the European Parliament is able to support the Commission in its efforts to change and reform the policy in the future. I believe this is necessary and, even though we do not have any formal influence, our support is badly needed as a matter of urgency.
Mr President, Commissioner, the rapporteur, Mr Stevenson, has done some very thorough work and I particularly want to thank him for his ability to cooperate and communicate with various groups and parties. This proved invaluable and certainly helped us achieve this excellent result.The Commission has thrown a very simple solution into the debate and I also think that it is indeed meant to be a way of getting the discussion started. Imports will make up the shortfall; it is a childishly simple proposition. But the answer contained in this report is exceptionally good. It raises the issues of new plants, the Blair House negotiations, oil plant production aid in the United States of America, the fishmeal problem, and others. These are matters that have to be, and can be, resolved.The most crucial question, however, is whether to support the production of plant proteins in the EU Member States or not. That is the question we first have to tackle and then make the very profound and fundamental decision that it must be supported. We cannot embark on a programme of unprofitable production, and with that in mind Mr Garot has submitted the proposal that we should carry out research and move forward on the basis of that. Research brings with it the possibility that there will actually be a demand for our own plant proteins. Demand will raise prices and prices give a boost to cultivation.These problems must be resolved and we hold the key to the solution. Why can we not provide solutions? Why is that? Everyone is a little wary: everyone is out to safeguard their own interests a bit too much. We need to have a broader view and provide a comprehensive solution instead of hiding behind excuses the whole time.With regard to bioenergy and plant proteins, for example, the solution is very simple. All we need to do is pass resolutions and resolve problems of taxation. These sorts of procedures will result in a comprehensive solution leading to our own plant protein energy programme in Europe, one that is not dependent on the United States, Brazil or Argentina.
Mr President, with Nelson Mandela’s farewell as President and the election of Thabo Mbeki, South Africa entered a new political era. As one young South African who had grown up in Denmark expressed it, “it is good for South Africa now that Mandela is retiring.” It is not good for a democracy to have a god as President, and Mandela was and remains a deity. But you do not rebel against gods, not in any case when they have just opened the way to freedom. By this, I do not mean that Thabo Mbeki does not have god-like characteristics. What I mean is that the patience shown by the poor towards Nelson Mandela will not be shown towards Thabo Mbeki. They are making demands here and now for food, housing, education, that is to say, all the things which we in the western world take for granted. For the time being, they remain only criminals. Subsequently, they will rise in rebellion. This puts Thabo Mbeki in a quite different situation from his predecessor, but it also puts us in the EU in a quite different situation. We should remember this fact and we should also remember the Balkans and what Kofi Annan said in his speech to the UN at the opening of the General Assembly this year: that it is incredible how much we sacrifice to go to war and how little we sacrifice to prevent war. That is why it is good that we have obtained the present agreement between South Africa and the EU. It is certainly not as good as it ought to be. It is not nearly generous enough, and I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Kinnock, for pointing this out. Nonetheless, it is there and it binds the EU and South Africa together. Hopefully, it will mean that, in South Africa too, it is felt that it is no longer so very far from the EU to South Africa, either physically or psychologically, and that the gap between words and action is no longer so lengthy as, without a shadow of a doubt, it was felt to be in the period after 1994 and up until 1999.
Mr President, I would also like to start by thanking both rapporteurs for their hard work. It was not easy this year.The first lesson we can draw from this year’s budgetary discussion is that the Commission and the Council need to be careful about making statements in public regarding how much money is available for a certain cause without knowing how exactly it will be funded. This does not seem to bear repetition.I would like to move on to the budget itself. Firstly, I would like to focus on the agricultural budget itself. Category 1 A. I question the benefit of the exercise which we started three years ago, the so-called ad hoc procedure that we would refer to the most recent estimates for the following year and establish the budget for compulsory expenditure accordingly. I can only note that the Council has adhered to July’s budget. The Council’s perspective is, of course, unique, but I fail to comprehend why one should always adhere to what one has established in July. I do admit that some shifting has occurred between different budget headings.With regard to category 1 B, I appreciate that the Council has adopted Parliament’s amendment in order to achieve a quality policy for European agricultural products. At a time when consumers are increasingly anxious about the quality of food, I think that this is urgently needed and therefore meets with my appreciation.As for the other amendments in category 1 B, my group will support these. At a time of WTO negotiations, when everyone talks about a sound rural policy, it is positive that the European Union pursues an active policy in this field.Then I would like to comment on category 4 of the budget, including Kosovo. Firstly, I think that Parliament has shown its goodwill by finding the necessary funding for Timor and Turkey within the budget itself. This has clearly been down to the Parliament’s goodwill.Another noteworthy fact with regard to category 4 is that we have established that on 30 September of every year, a project surfaces which ties up about 10% of the money and then miraculously, two months later, around 100% of the money is allocated. How does this inventiveness come about so swiftly? Would it not be possible to space it out a bit more and, in this context, to take into account the Court of Auditors’ observation in this respect?The group can agree with the method of financing such as it has been regulated provisionally for Kosovo. It differs quite significantly from the original amounts specified by the Commission. We look forward to establishing a new budget as soon as possible, should this prove necessary. The objective of my group is not to dash the financial perspectives as such. We are more than willing to discuss any well-defined proposals, provided they are accompanied by sound arguments.I am also awaiting the compromise which will hopefully materialise tomorrow regarding payment appropriations. My group is divided on this matter. According to some Members, the payment appropriation level should definitely be lowered. If I have interpreted the noises in this respect correctly, then this will also happen.As far as we are concerned, Kosovo should not be the cause of an inter-institutional war. We should be able to solve this matter on the basis of arguments. Peace in the Balkans is worth a great deal to us.
As a liberal, I am always in favour of dialogue in Parliament. That is what democracy is all about. And as rapporteur, I have always tried to be an honest, objective intermediary and maintain dialogue between the various European standpoints in the Committee on Development and Cooperation and between the various organisations. Right from the beginning I could see that there would be a problem. I have tried to defend a compromise in the Committee on Development and Cooperation. One regulation with two chapters. I am sorry that this has ultimately turned out not to be the official point of view of Parliament, but I will remain at your disposal.I have abstained from the vote législatif because I want to be in a position to maintain the dialogue between all the institutional players involved in this issue, which is so very important for Asia and Latin America. We have only one aim: to accept a definitive regulation in the near future with consensus between the various standpoints.
Mr President, the Committee on Budgetary Control has published, to give you the main points, the following suggestions on the resolutions of the Committee on Budgets.In the first place we would like the budgets to be more realistic in the future than they have been in the past. We note that large amounts remain unspent every year. There is nothing against that as such, but then why did that money have to be in the budget in the first place?The second point, that is very important to us, concerns the fact that about 80% to 85% of all the money is spent by the Member States. As a way of exercising extra control over this, would it not be possible for each Member State to issue a declaration each year, stating that the money had been well spent. If things turned out later to be wrong, then the Commission would be in a stronger legal position to deal with the Member State concerned. In other words, national declarations of good conduct.The third point is that we would like, but that is widely known, that a positive Statement of Assurance (DAS) be produced once every so many years. On the eve of the elections, it is really difficult to explain why, after nine years, the Commission is still unable to extract a positive declaration of expenditure from the European Court of Auditors.
Mr President, I am afraid I am going to break the consensus so far. The rapporteur has worked hard and I am therefore particularly sorry to say that mycannot unfortunately support most of his amendments. It is time to match the rhetoric about fighting money laundering with tough action.As someone who represents London, including the City of London, I am naturally supportive of financial services liberalisation. However, freedom of capital movements must not be exploited for undesirable purposes. Criminal money could give liberalisation a bad name. This means financial firms have an interest in making the safeguards work but so do other professionals such as accountants and lawyers who are vulnerable to being used as inadvertent conduits for dirty money. The European Parliament has itself made a strong call for the extension of a ten-year-old existing directive to cover non-financial activities and professions. As the money laundering defences of banks have strengthened, criminals have sought new ways of hiding their money. Therefore it is reasonable to call for other professionals to identify their clients properly and report suspicious transactions without narrowing too much the scope of the relevant activities. We cannot therefore follow Mr Lehne in his amendments on accountants and auditors.Turning to lawyers, they rightly get special treatment. The obligations of the directive would only apply in respect of certain financial and company law activities. My Group believes that the safeguards for the lawyer-client relationship, which is absolutely crucial, is adequate in the Council common position. The lobbying of lawyers' organisations against this common position has been somewhat exaggerated. Therefore we, in the  Group, will not be supporting the Lehne amendments because we are extremely keen not to weaken the rules. There are some of Mr Lehne's amendments which are entirely sensible and we will support them but, I am afraid, not the majority.
Mr President, I too wish to congratulate Mr Markov on drafting a successful report, and thank him for it. Our Group is in favour of adopting it. The report has quite rightly stressed the importance of including the participation as well as the cooperation of regional and local players. Innovative measures can also help us to strengthen special regional and local features. In my opinion, it is important to create conditions that are as equal as possible in the different areas by exploiting modern technology. Teleworking can also create new job opportunities in sparsely populated areas. For that reason, broadband networks, for example, should be established to cover the entire Union area as much as is feasible, including those regions in which the markets do not create networks. The basic idea behind innovative measures is the creation and utilisation of new operational models. To this end, we must develop monitoring and evaluation systems. We have to focus attention on exchanges of experience and compliance with best practice. Tourism is an important means of livelihood in many remote areas as well. Innovative measures would, for example, help to promote the cooperation of travel companies in marketing and reservation systems. As has been said here, innovative measures should not just play it safe: they must also involve trying out risky projects. The measures must also serve the interests of regional sustainable development. Regarding the budget, some serious words were said here in the previous speech: EUR 400 million is really just the minimum for financing, and we will have to utilise the additional financial possibilities offered by the flexibility instrument in the second half of the period, as the report states.I would also like to ask how the Commission intends to ensure that the money that was agreed at Berlin will be available for innovative measures, and how the money that has been lent to the URBAN initiative is to be returned during this period for use for innovative measures. Amendments Nos 5 and 7 are appropriate, as the Commission should not use appropriation reserves for unexpected projects, as was the case a few weeks ago.
Mr President, I would like to welcome the Portuguese initiative and Mrs Cerdeira's first-class report and thank her for her open and consensual approach. Thefeels that a very good report has emerged from the debate in committee and we will be supporting the committee amendments when we vote. We will not be supporting subsequent amendments from either theor the, with the exception of Amendment No 59. We feel that to call on Member States to sign the European Convention of 24 November 1983 on the compensation of victims of violent crime fits better in the legislative resolution than in the body of the report on the framework decision.It is quite clear that if we are to create and to realise the area of freedom, security and justice provided for at Tampere then we will need legal aid in cross-border cases. I know from my own constituency of a lorry driver who was assaulted by his employers in the Netherlands and found himself unable to take them to court to gain access to justice. Therefore, Amendment No 4 is essential. We know, too, that we need the assumption that a victim of any nationality will be treated in the same way as a victim of the nationality of the country in which the offence takes place. I have a constituent whose car was broken into in Brussels and who found that the Belgian police wanted to know nothing about it. This is why we will be supporting Amendment No 14. We clearly need civil liberties safeguards and the recognition of the special needs of minorities and these are covered by Amendment No 25 and others. I had in my own constituency a Swedish family attacked; it was a xenophobically-motivated attack, their attackers believed them to be German. I would be very interested to know whether they found it as easy to gain access to justice in Great Britain as they would have done in their own country. Somehow, I doubt it.So, Mr President, Liberals support this report. We feel it is a major step towards the creation of a European legal area and will benefit millions of our citizens.
Madam President, I too can say that I am delighted with the Commission's attempt to simplify the promotion of mobility, for that is really what this is about. We all want citizens to be able to really demand justice in the free movement of workers. This has not been a success to date. Just one look at the statistics shows us that only around 2% of the citizens work in another country. However, I should in this respect also like to deliver a few notes of discord which do not concern Parliament. Once again, we have managed to work well with the fellow MEPs. As Mrs Oomen-Ruijten has stated, work with the European Commission was also perfectly feasible. I did, however, see it as a sword of Damocles that the European Council is threatening to call it a day after all if we do not bring our requirements under control. I find this hard to take, certainly where frontier work is concerned. I should like to underpin this with a few examples. In my area, which is between the Belgian border zone – in which I live – and the Netherlands, the opportunity is currently presenting itself to deploy 800 workers at a large company, Volvo, just across the border. People will certainly be recruited from my area. I still, however, hesitate to advise people to actually do this unless 100% guarantees can be given concerning sound and proper social security. I find it impossible to explain to, for example, a 62-year old lady who has become disabled, that she will lose her disability pension in Belgium and will not qualify for old-age pension in the Netherlands until she reaches the age of 65. These are all situations that cannot be accounted for because there is insufficient coordination at the moment. For that reason, we have all joined forces and tabled yet a few more amendments to avoid scenarios of this kind in future. With these amendments, we want to force the institutions and the Member States to coordinate their efforts more effectively. The amendments tabled by us, fortunately by a number of groups together, pertain to very specific cases which often affect frontier workers. This receives my support. In my view, it is unacceptable for the Member States not to be able, and willing, to acknowledge this problem. Surely we cannot have a situation where a united Europe is being sabotaged because a number of national officials and politicians treat frontier work as a marginal issue. I am therefore pleased that in its proposal, the European Commission is making every effort to enforce cooperation by the Member States. As soon as this regulation has been adopted, I hope that it will actually be enforced, and I would urge the Commission to see that it is.
Mr President, first I would like to thank Mrs Haug for a very well prepared report. It continues a series of reports in which Mrs Haug has meritoriously and comprehensively analysed the EU’s system of own resources.The report under discussion is based on the decisions taken at the Berlin Summit, which involve many compromises. The most important basis mentioned were the estimates for Member States’ contributions, reconciliation on which became more important than safeguarding EU financing. The cornerstone of the system of own resources is still, however, the percentage a member pays out of GNP. The ceiling for committed contributions remains at 1.27% of GNP, which guarantees that EU revenue rises with inflation and general economic growth.But this is where the system’s clarity ends. First, the premium paid for the collection of traditional own resources, i.e. customs duty and agricultural levies, was increased to 25%. This rise in the rate is, in fact, a clear concession to those countries that collect mostly customs duties, relatively speaking. The rise was justified by the need to collect contributions more efficiently, but that is not sufficient justification.Politically, the most problematic issue is the rebate in respect of contributions by the United Kingdom. The UK has been a member of the EU for 30 years, so it cannot be a matter of a transitional stage. The same might be said for the agreement made on the payment of this rebate. The reduced contributions by Germany, the Netherlands, Sweden and Austria do not have any proper justification either.Mrs Haug’s report contains a proposal whereby a report on amending the system should be drafted before 2004. It should examine in particular concessions on contributions and the possibility of creating a new system of own resources that would relate directly to the public, without increasing their burden of taxation. The Liberals support this reform, all the while stressing that the burden of taxation must not be increased. Perhaps new forms of own resources could include environmental protection taxes, as environmental questions concern all, and not just the new Member States. It is important, however, that the new system outlined in the report should come into effect in all respects from the beginning of 2007.
Mr President, the excellent work of both rapporteurs completes a remarkable series of reports by this Parliament on the implementation of Article 13. This first year of the 21st century has shown the EU institutions determined to entrench non-discrimination as a basic European value and fundamental human right.I want to concentrate especially on the Mann report and specifically Article 4. This would permit continued discrimination where it is an essential or genuine requirement. In particular, it provides that there can be occupational discrimination on religious grounds. This is clearly a powerful exception to the rule on non-discrimination. It must be justified on tight criteria and not abused.I therefore welcome the committee's amendments to that end, although I would prefer that Member States should be permitted but not obliged to offer such religious privileges. I have requested a split vote on the word 'shall' for that purpose.It is essential that discrimination on religious grounds should not be a pretext to discriminate against employees on other grounds, for example, because they are homosexual. I am sure that sensible and moderate religious organisations would not seek to do so to exploit this as a loophole. But we must not allow fundamentalists with prejudiced views of any religion to allow their views to prevail against the non-discrimination standards of secular society.I am aware that there is a rising tide of lobbies in politics which are seeking to extend the grip of religion in the public sphere. There is a proper sphere for religion. The compromise in this report allows plenty of space to religious organisations and it must not be abused.
Mr President, I am liberal but not ultra-liberal. Questions relating to energy and the environment must be seen in context, and methods of obtaining energy must be framed in a balanced and well-judged way. Because almost all energy production and use has a negative effect on the environment, energy policy must also be seen as an important part of environmental policy. Good access to energy sources is a prerequisite of our well-being and of jobs and development. The way in which we adapt our methods of obtaining energy must therefore take account of Europe’s need for growth and increased employment. It is quite clear that if nuclear power and access to nuclear energy are handled in an irresponsible way, this will seriously damage both Europe’s opportunities for growth and its ability to deal successfully with what is, in my view, the most serious threat to the environment, namely climate changes due to increasing carbon dioxide emissions. Let us therefore stop burying our heads in the sand in the belief that the problems involved in adapting our methods of obtaining energy will disappear. The rapid phasing-out of nuclear power, the reduction of carbon dioxide emissions, a better environment, continued well-being and economic power – these are not all of a piece.Mr Chichester’s report is mainly characterised by a holistic vision which I am convinced must be present in policy concerning energy and the environment. One additional point, however: a common environmental tax for the whole of Europe must become a reality. This will be required.Finally, the unsafe and, in certain cases, downright dangerous nuclear power stations in Central and Eastern Europe must be closed down very quickly. It is unusually bad policy to close down properly operating nuclear power stations in the Member States, necessitating a replacement source of power involving increasing carbon dioxide emissions, at the same time as retaining a form of nuclear power which constitutes a serious environmental threat to the whole of our continent.
Madam President, Commissioner, the liberal group sanctions the agreement reached on Sunday between China and the United States regarding the lowering of bilateral barriers to trade. However, the European Union now also has to conclude the same agreement with China before actual entry into the WTO can take place. Mr Clegg has already touched upon this. There are a few sensitive issues, one of which is intellectual property rights.The liberal group would bring up another condition for China’s entry. The European Parliament has emphasised in various resolutions that Taiwan should enter at the same time as China. Indeed, Taiwan is the nineteenth trading nation globally and has met all conditions of entry for years now. I would therefore put two concrete questions to the Commissioner.Firstly, what is the state of play regarding the Union’s negotiations with China, in particular with regard to intellectual property rights? Secondly, is the Commissioner prepared to fully back Taiwan’s entry into the WTO at the same time as China?
In order to minimise human suffering and enhance our own credibility, we need to introduce one more correction to the external relations budget. It remains extremely regrettable that we are still more than EUR 3 million short on the landmine issue. Funds for this cause have already been cut back worldwide. The European Union should not take part in this trend. Some 50 people, mainly women and children, are still affected every day. An enormous amount of money is still required, particularly for the aftercare of the victims and the relatives. Moreover, we as Parliament must also meet the commitments entered into in 2001. We are now incurring payment arrears while the EU has proven that it can make an effective contribution specifically in this field. This is why the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy has re-tabled my amendment. Our Parliament should recognise that the banning of landmines must also involve non-state players. Parliament is adopting a consistent stance by endorsing the amendment. A slight increase in the funds will result in a considerable reduction in the number of people suffering.
This report is a welcome improvement on the existing situations of the different social security systems, particularly for border regions that experience a great deal of cross-frontier working, and the rapporteur has done a great job in this respect.With regard to Amendment No 20 about the definition of the household/the family, a majority of the  Group has voted in favour of this amendment and despite this, has not requested a roll-call vote, as we think it would be very undesirable to risk the whole report being voted out. This would also be the reason for the rapporteur agreeing to reject Amendment No 20.I need to get something off my chest. This Parliament spends many session hours every month on fundamental human rights in countries outside of Europe. We get involved in virtually every incident of what is unacceptable according to European standards. However, when we discuss human rights within Europe, such as sexual orientation, we refuse to nail our colours to the mast. It is a disgrace, in my view, for Parliament to want to retain the option of placing citizens outside of the law on account of their sexual orientation. There are, of course, various arguments that can be used to support this view; you could, of course, say that this is a case of subsidiarity, or that it is more important to adopt the report than the principled choice in Amendment No 20. To do so nevertheless infringes another right, namely the right of every European to be able to work within the European Union. By rejecting Amendment No 20, the labour mobility of a number of citizens is curtailed quite severely, and this in a progressive Europe, no less.Fortunately, this selfsame Parliament has, probably unwittingly, recently adopted a similar amendment in the Santini report. As a Liberal, I hope that this approval will offer sufficient guarantees for all European citizens.
Mr President, the Commission has repeatedly confirmed the need to establish a knowledge-based Europe geared towards the market of European citizens, a more competitive and dynamic knowledge-based Europe which also promotes quality training and education, particularly by guaranteeing the mutual recognition of professional qualifications and diplomas as a concrete and tangible proof of European citizenship. That requires that any obstacle to the free movement of citizens, to the mobility of workers and to the professions in the single European market be eliminated. To date, however, this is subject to major difficulties which, without going into too much detail, I want to list: the lack of any real spirit of cooperation, help and understanding; the complexity of existing national legislation; the reluctance of national authorities; the preference given to educational and training criteria instead of to examinations intended to ensure that education is really equivalent for the purpose of recognising diplomas; the lack of academic recognition of diplomas and other courses of study.Mr Zappalà’s well-balanced report, which I support, has dealt in a constructive and pragmatic way with the question of a European Union that is increasingly consensual and united wherein European citizens will play a primary role, particularly citizens with professional qualifications. There are, however, I repeat, certain outstanding matters and problems that must be resolved and, as the Committee for Petitions and I myself believe, over and above any statement of principle, effective action is required – as happened, for example, in the case of consultation – with a view to establishing effective measures to control and promote resources for the purpose of embracing the different Community provisions governing the legal systems of the Member States and maximising the potential of the Community system itself for the recognition of professional qualifications and academic diplomas, with a view to making that system more transparent, responsive and accessible to the persons concerned. In addition to this, greater attention must be paid to new information technologies in recognition of the need for permanent life-long learning. The Committee on Petitions has received a large number of petitions on the matter and this demonstrates the urgency with which this situation must be tackled in order to establish Europe effectively as an open place for culture, the professions and European citizens.
Mr President, I welcome Mr Wiebenga's report, not only for its strengthening of the practical arrangements for sharing responsibility for Kosovo-type situations which I am sure our citizens can relate to as a demonstration of European solidarity, but also for Mr Wiebenga's insistence that a regime of temporary protection must not undermine and become a substitute for the Geneva Convention and the rights of beneficiaries to apply for asylum. Mr Wiebenga has added some useful, strengthening amendments to the clause already in the Commission proposal: for instance, on insisting on non-refoulement, to insist that the Dublin Convention shall not apply and that the host Member State shall consider the asylum application, and on the involvement of UNHCR. All these are to be welcomed.I am sorry that theGroup insisted on forcing amendments to the article on family reunion. I feel the clause about unmarried partners which says that Member States may admit an unmarried partner if the legislation of the Member State treats unmarried couples in the same way as married couples is slightly perverse. I would have thought that it would be rather odd to treat them differently if domestic legislation did not.The other point I want to make is the contrast between Mr Wiebenga's report and the previous one by Mr Kirkhope. Mr Wiebenga's report is based on a Commission proposal in line with the Tampere conclusions and the scoreboard. It passed through our Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs constructively, without major dissension and results in a report which sensibly improves the Commission proposals. What a contrast to the series of Members States' proposals. Mr Vitorino said politely what many of us in Parliament are saying rather more rudely, that the Council and Member States need to get their act together on asylum and immigration. Mr Wiebenga's report has been a model of how we can work constructively between the Commission and Parliament. All we need is the Council to work as constructively with us.
Mr President, the Commissioner said that he felt cheated by the Government of Cyprus. He was too polite. His good faith has been betrayed, as has that of our rapporteur, Mr Poos.Under international law, the entire island of Cyprus will join the European Union on 1 May, regardless of the result of the referendum, and Turkish Cypriots will become EU citizens. However, if the Greek Cypriots reject the Annan Plan, Turkish Cypriots will be EU citizens who are denied recognition and representation and who are being kept impoverished by economic sanctions applied by the EU. Turkish Cypriots are trapped in a pincer: they are threatened on the one hand by Turkish settlers and on the other by the economic strength of the Greek Cypriots. They have been poorly led for years. However, the tide has now turned and if they vote 'yes' in Saturday's referendum, they will have done everything that we and the UN have asked of them. Under such circumstances it would be completely unacceptable for economic sanctions to be maintained. We cannot persecute our own citizens. The presidency and the Commission, with the UN, must take steps to lift their burden through the means of transport and trade, and must do so without delay.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner Barnier, I wish to begin by congratulating you, Commissioner Barnier, for the results achieved with the n+2 rule, by the efforts at simplification and by the fact that matters are now apparently such that, within structural policy, there is more success in implementing expenditure and getting money used.We do in fact see, however, how the budgets and the payment appropriations have been significantly cut back, both in the Commission’s and the Council’s proposals, and, in the light of what you are saying today, it has of course to be wondered whether it is right to take matters so calmly, confident that there are enough payment appropriations, and whether a proposal for the supplementary budget is enough to solve the problem, if it emerges that the money is being used up more quickly than we anticipated. In recent years, we have of course seen that there has been a huge amount of money left over from the agricultural budgets in the autumn, but will that continue, with a falling dollar and other growing expenditure? That is a matter for reflection.I also think it right to look at the problem constituted by the fact that it is not possible to have confidence in the reports we obtain from the Member States. Neither the Commission nor the Member States’ finance ministers have confidence in the reports obtained as to what needs exist. This is therefore worth investigating more carefully. I nonetheless think Mr Mulder has the right idea in saying we should increase the payment appropriations so that we might be sure that the projects can be implemented within the agreed time frames, even if those of us in my group have never supported large increases in the payment appropriations.I want to mention something else, namely the issue of the cutbacks we see in a range of budget lines where small and medium-sized enterprises are concerned. In particular, we see how, within the action programme for the working environment, the budget is being drastically cut back, and that, I think, is a completely wrong signal to send out prior to enlargement. I want to attach a lot of importance to our being able to obtain an exchange of knowledge and development of experience in the area relating to the working environment, so that free competition in the EU is not at the expense of a good working environment.
Mr President, enlargement of the European Union will strengthen the Northern Dimension. When the Baltic countries and Poland, which have been major partners in EU external relations, join the Union they will give the Northern Dimension strength both in the EU’s internal development work and its external relations. The enlarging EU is reorganising external relations with its eastern and southern neighbours by creating the Wider Europe and new Neighbourhood Policy. The Northern Dimension’s future crucially depends on how well we can link it with this wider scenario.Within the framework of the Wider Europe Policy, the EU will still enlarge and develop its relations with its European neighbours. Added to that are the Northern Dimension and the Southern Dimension aspects of EU policy, which also extend outside Europe. It is natural that the New Neighbourhood Policy and the new neighbourhood cooperation finance scheme should also be implemented in northern regions. It is precisely in the north that the new finance scheme could be applied as a pilot project before it is adopted generally, as is proposed in Mrs Napoletano’s report.
Mr President, Commissioner, we are delighted with the proposals that are before us. Mr Mayer and Mr Menrad have already noted that there is still room for some improvement as far as those proposals are concerned. Nevertheless, I believe we should be very pleased with the progress made on this extremely important subject. Before, it was mainly the American multinationals that considered the lack of a European Company as a deficiency, because they wanted to work in Europe rather than in the individual Member States. It is also for that reason that, as long as thirty years ago, Professor Sanders introduced the concept of ‘Societas Europaea’ during an inaugural speech at the Erasmus University in Rotterdam.We are pleased that the proposal is now before us after thirty years. We regret the fact that it is still not possible now finally to bring the tax systems in Europe closer together and to gear them to one another. This does not mean that taxes should be harmonised. I believe that a band of competitive tariffs should remain in place, but I still think that it is important for a European Company to have the tax systems in the various Member States at least geared to one another. Indeed, we may now have one European Company, but each Member State will still need to apply its own social legislation and its own tax systems.It will ultimately be the market which will require that an actual European Company with its own statute be created, something which, at present, is still being hampered by the independent actions of the various Member States. We therefore welcome the European Company. We hope that the evaluations will follow promptly and believe that the market will eventually determine the European Statute a few years following those evaluations. This will benefit a Europe that has the euro and the internal market.
Mr President, I want to express my thanks for a good report. It should be obvious to everyone that men and women should have the same opportunities to participate in decision-making at all levels, but unfortunately this is not the case. So what can be done? We need greater equality in the home, access to good child care, shared parental responsibility, more encouragement within educational systems to break with traditional gender-linked roles, and flexible working hours in order to accommodate individual requirements. In addition to this, we also need working methods in politics, industry and trade unions which are not based on men’s priorities.Despite the fact that politics continues, to a far too great extent, to be a male domain – in some countries more than in others – the problems are greater still in industry and trade union organisations. This is unacceptable and needs to be the focus of more attention.Equality is not a women’s issue and can only be achieved through cooperation between both sexes. Therefore, men must be involved – in a totally different way than at present – in working towards equality. For instance, more men should be actively involved in working towards equality within this Parliament. We need more women in decision-making positions, but – and this is where I agree with Mrs Theorin – not because they are women but because it is unacceptable for so much skill and experience to go to waste.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, theGroup supports the Hatzidakis report. Community policy in the field of trans-European networks is of major importance because it is not possible to have a common transport policy without a convergent infrastructures policy, as is stressed in the Maastricht Treaty. Efficient transport infrastructures are essential for economic growth and employment, as they are for the competitiveness of companies which depend on the movement of persons, goods and resources.According to this debate, Europe, first and foremost, is that political Europe towards which we are striving, but it is also the result of economic and social cohesion. It is true that the European Union’s budgetary resources are insufficient and need to be increased, and it is also true that we need to increase the contributions of public bodies as well as public/private partnerships. In this regard, my Group has drawn the Commission’s attention to the fact that the report does not contain information on sources of funding other than the Community budget and the European Investment Bank, and it has also stressed its concern that as many as seven Essen projects have not been given a guarantee that they will be completed within the timeframes envisaged.We, too, say ‘Yes’ to the Brenner Pass and we, too, say ‘Yes’ to the use of new technologies. However, the Member States must respect the pledges made, and the Commission must also take into account the guidelines established for the B5-700 budget line – a major budget line established in 1998 – promoting more environmentally friendly models and, above all, taking the different factors into consideration where a trans-European link passes through densely populated areas or highly industrialised regions.For this reason, we also consider that appropriations set aside for these projects must not exceed 50% and that, after due analysis, the amounts still available for projects on which little progress has been made could be recouped and used for other projects with the same priorities, including environmental priorities.
Mr President, I should like to request that it not be taken this evening. The vote will be totally distorted. We know that a lot of people will leave this afternoon. They do not expect this kind of vote on a Thursday afternoon. Could we not postpone it until the April plenary session in Strasbourg?
In spite of constructive efforts, current fisheries policy still means that the EU is buying itself the right to misuse the natural resources of the poor. It is a modern form of colonialism. A genuine reform of fisheries policy is required, and a totally transformed view of our relations with poor countries. We have therefore chosen to vote against this report in its entirety.
Madam President, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, I must express my surprise at this debate on the international movement of capital and its possible taxation which, although it does not mention it in the text, appears to be an attempt to revive, as the introduction has done, the issue of the tax proposed some years ago by Mr Tobin, which our Group opposed, clearly and totally, during the last legislature, with a series of arguments clearly and coherently expressed by our President, Mr Cox. I will have to repeat these arguments, modestly, in this intervention, because the same issue has arisen once again.We do not agree with this type of tax because its application, in the event that it could happen, would not achieve the aims which Mr Tobin presented at the time and which thein this House wishes to revive.Firstly, there is no evidence that the tax on international capital movements could reduce the dangers of volatility and instability in the international markets. On the contrary, since it is certain that not all countries would accept it, we would open the way to speculation and fraud and that really would create volatility, instability, insecurity, opacity and unfair competition in the field of financial services operating on an international level.Furthermore, the idea of obtaining resources to apply them to the more economically needy countries presents such complexity, when we consider their application in practice, that it appears simply impossible.This is a false debate whose aim is purely political, and has no basis or technical viability. Furthermore – since we are in this European Parliament – if we have still not managed the slightest agreement with regard to the package of fiscal measures proposed by the Commission within the European Union, how can we expect to achieve a fiscal agreement on an international level? I suppose that the first thing they say will be, ‘let us see whether you are capable of reaching a fiscal agreement within the Union’.However, thehas not wanted to close the door to a new analysis of this issue and, therefore, we have accepted a joint motion for a resolution proposing that a study be carried out on the possibility and suitability of imposing this tax on certain areas of international capital movements. I am sure that this study – if carried out objectively, with knowledge of the financial markets and their mechanisms on an international level – will show that it is neither suitable nor possible, not only in terms of its application, but also as a means of achieving the proposed objectives.In itself, globalisation is positive. The economy has never grown so much nor favoured so many countries on a global level. This is due to progressive opening up and greater freedom in the international trade in goods and services and also a greater capacity for adequate movement of capital.Any analysis of economic development in recent years, if objective, will show, through the figures, that they have no political colour or orientation.As I have said, we are not opposed to such a study. We will support the motion for a resolution in support of this study, but we simply insist that, as this motion for a resolution points out, it is by means of liberalisation and opening up at an international level that we will achieve economic progress, both on the level of states and on a general level.
In May, the EU and UN held the third conference on the least developed countries here in Strasbourg. It was a good conference in the sense that the right words were said, but there is also cause for some despair when we look at the realities. These are, namely, that, since 1971, when the UN recognised the term ‘least developed’, the number of the least developed countries has grown from 25 to 49 today. Only one country, Botswana, has managed to struggle out of the ranks of the least developed countries. The gap between the world’s rich and poor has grown. In 1960, 20% of the world population in the richest countries had an income that was 30 times higher than that of the 20% poorest. In 1997, it was 74 times as high, and the figure is undoubtedly even higher today.There are many reasons why the least developed countries are in such a poor situation: rising population growth, illiteracy, untenable debt, environmental destruction, natural catastrophes and diseases such as HIV/Aids, malaria and tuberculosis. In addition, unstable political conditions and a growing number of violent conflicts make it difficult to create long-term development plans. However, neither is it any use denying that, despite many resolutions to increase development aid by 0.7%, the reality is that development aid is 0.23% of gross domestic product. It is slightly better in the case of the EU, where it is 0.34%.The removal of customs barriers in respect of the developing countries, which will help these countries, is progressing slowly. This was most recently illustrated in connection with Commissioner Lamy’s proposal, which was based on the Member States’ deferring the organisation of the market in sugar, especially with the support of the European sugar producers. In connection with the transfer of technology, private enterprise was intransigent in the fight against Aids, private enterprises only entering into a compromise with South Africa following fierce pressure, and now we are seeing exactly the same thing with regard to malaria – namely that enterprises do not have enough incentive to produce a vaccine against malaria, and therefore no vaccine will be produced unless we intervene and do something extraordinary.In addition to this, there is ICT. This is a development that is creating great economic growth in the industrialised countries, but which also risks further marginalisation of the developing countries due to lack of access both to the knowledge created by virtue of this development and to the technology as such. The opportunities that this technology can provide, as well as the risk of further marginalisation, form the background to this initiative report. The main viewpoint – the sustaining argument of the report – is that ICT provides an opportunity for the developing countries to make a quantum leap. In the report, I mention a number of sectors in which ICT can be used advantageously and in which other organisations such as the UNDP and the World Bank and some of the Member States have already had good experience.I believe that Parliament here is in line with the Council which, back in 1997 asked the Commission to draw up a report on experience with ICT in development work and, in November 2000, called upon the Commission to submit a communication on ‘the digital divide’. The report on experience arrived here this spring, and the communication will hopefully arrive before the meeting of the Development Council in November 2001. The Commission believes that the ICT work must take place through mainstreaming, that is, through ICT being used in the individual projects. This is a necessary but not a sufficient condition. If this development is not just to help those who are already strong, it is essential that mainstreaming be supplemented with central work so that there is a place from which initiatives can emanate, from which good advice can be obtained and where experience can be gathered, so that one does not have to start from scratch all the time and, above all, so that the right social balance in the development can be secured. Consequently, in an earlier report – namely the Gemelli report – in March of this year, the European Parliament also asked the Commission to give this area greater priority, possibly as part of the transport priority. The Commission has stood by its previous approach, but I cannot emphasise enough that this is not sufficient. This report therefore contains a proposal for an e-development unit. Without such a unit, it will be impossible to ensure that there is knowledge to ensure that ICT is incorporated in the right way into the work of the Commission. However, it is of course not only ICT that must be used in the context of the aid we provide. There is also a need for private enterprises. The shining example from other areas is the Grameen Bank in Bangladesh, which started micro loans for women – in the first instance in the agricultural sector, but later expanding to encompass other areas as well. A similar commitment within ICT is imperative. There are some that are in progress and more should be given further impetus.It would be nice to see a global social commitment on the part of enterprises, and this can easily be combined with general earnings. Finally, Mr President: ICT is always emphasised as the technology that can liberate people. It would be nice to be able to see that that also applies to people in the developing countries. In view of our experiences with the oil and pharmaceuticals industries, it would be good if enterprises could become a shining example into the bargain.
Mr President, Commissioner, I too would like to thank the rapporteur for his report and I go along with the gist of what Mr Costa said. However, there is one point with which I, like other members of the Dutch People’s Party for Freedom and Democracy, am struggling, namely the following.Recital No 14 and Article 4 provide for the possibility of government aid being granted for the purpose of the use of infrastructure. This is possible pursuant to the amendments. In our opinion, this exemption from the ban of government aid is undesirable. First of all because the starting premise is wrong, for transport by road already pays the lion’s share of external costs. Secondly, it is not judicious to grant extra support for the use of the railways, because costs do not constitute the most important reason why transporters do not opt for rail. We need an increase in quality and reliability, and market discipline is in that case the best incentive. I fear that this incentive for a modal shift, of which we are, of course, in favour, is counterproductive, brings about distortion of competition and undermines the work that has been done in the framework of the rail infrastructure package. We will therefore be voting against Recital No 14 and Article 4. They do not belong here.
Mr President, the loud, sustained applause that greeted the presentation of Mrs De Sarnez’ report is indicative of its value and excellent quality.European added value has been mentioned with regard to Erasmus Mundus. There is also Parliamentary added value through the amendments which Parliament will make to this European response to the challenge of global competition between universities. This challenge consists of responding to the brain drain by attracting brains, without imitating formulas from outside Europe, while developing a specific objective: linguistic diversity. A knowledge-based Europe is a multilingual Europe, the development of an original system of movement between universities, a vision of the organisation of the academic Community as a network: these are the innovative elements. What are we asking for in order to achieve this? A small budgetary increase, a little budgetary oxygen for Erasmus Mundus, a small financial step, Mr President, for a great leap towards excellence.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the, I would firstly like to express our support for Mr Trentin’s report. It is a very well-produced report which has sought a consensus. We have been able to work together and the result will reflect the efforts we have made throughout its drawing up in committee.This report could not have come at a more appropriate time: the day after tomorrow the Barcelona European Council will take place and it will deal with issues relating to the assessment to be made and the commitments to be assumed in relation to the Lisbon process, as well as, clearly, a series of issues which thehas always insisted on and which the Commissioner is sufficiently aware of and which I am not going to repeat: the need to liberalise the most protected sectors; the opening up of the markets; the emphasis on training and education: the provision of more resources for scientific research and technological development; that is, the fulfilment of the Lisbon objectives. We hope that clear progress will be made on this issue at this meeting in Barcelona.I would like to point out that the report by Mr Trentin does not exactly establish a social dimension, which is also included in the Lisbon objectives and that, unfortunately, they are not taken into account and, therefore, I believe that the demonstrations which have been organised against the Europe of capital – of this Europe which we are building and which is a reality – lack justification.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, of the various aspects dealt with in this debate, I would like to comment on the following: firstly, there has unquestionably been a serious crisis in the application of the bases of monetary union and the euro, which damage their credibility.Secondly, I would take up the famous phrase that the European Union has been built on the basis of crisis and we should learn the lesson from this crisis, particularly in relation to an aspect which has already been mentioned by Commissioner Solbes, and which I fully support, which consists of having a genuine direction for economic policy, something that he has called European governance.We have an asymmetric situation in a monetary policy which is much better defined than the economic policy. I hope that this crisis will serve to provide us with this economic governance which this Parliament has always called for, and most recently, if you will allow me to be immodest, in my report on the international role of the euro.(Applause)
For a long time, India was a stable country with Hindus and Muslims coexisting peacefully alongside one another. Last week's terrorist attacks in Mumbai might well spell the beginning of increasing violence between representatives of the religious communities. I certainly hope it will not. One of the suspects has already indicated that with this act, he wanted to take revenge for last year's anti-Muslim riots in Gujarat, which claimed the lives of 2 000 Muslims. Developments in India over the past fifty years had been typified by cultural diversity and a heterogeneous society. Over the past ten years, however, we have witnessed increasing alienation between Muslims and Hindus. The immediate cause is the issue involving the temple of the god Ram. The root cause, however, is to be sought more in the area of looming Hindu nationalism, where faith and national identity coincide. Hindus fear Muslims and Christians, particularly demographically speaking.Finally, needless to say, friction with Pakistan is continually placing a heavy strain on relations between them, including in India. The Indian Government should take the problems seriously, and it appears now to be doing so. An escalation must be avoided at all costs. I have tabled an amendment in which the Indian Government is urged to draw up a plan of action in this respect. India is not the only country that is facing tension between religions. Almost half of the recent violent conflicts in the world have a religious dimension. Consequently, I have expressly asked for this issue to be highlighted in my human rights report. An institutionalised dialogue should be set up between the most important world religions. The European Union should also look into this issue. For a long time, India was a good example of the peaceful co-existence of religions. It should pull out all the stops in order to again become the peaceful, stable country which it had been for such a long time.
Mr President, on a point of order: it will hardly surprise the House if, on behalf of my Group, I support the position you have taken. But I would nonetheless urge you in your intervention at the European Council in Barcelona to make the point very strongly that we as a House are not happy with the procedure that has been taken and that we hope in the future to see a much more constructive and collaborative approach to us from the other institutions.
Mr President, I too would like to congratulate the rapporteur and the draftsman for the consensus that they have drawn together. When this report first appeared it seemed to cover a small technical matter, but this is in fact a small technical matter with the ability to make a huge difference. It is of great importance, as has already been said, to the financial services action plan and to the better functioning of the internal market.As Lord Inglewood has already said, it is a proposal that, politically speaking, has come at the right moment. The collapse of a corporate giant like Enron and the reverberations of such a collapse for employees, for small investors, for pensioners, convince us that, if there is a way of helping prevent such misery for some of our citizens, then we should of course pursue it. These international accounting standards seem to hold out such a promise, both within and beyond the European Union. I hope that is so.I hope also, as other speakers have said, that the system involving a regulatory committee – a technical committee set up within our institutions – will provide the openness and, most importantly, the democratic accountability that this Parliament seeks. Our society, our citizens, have a huge stake in the success and health of our large corporations. It is clearly our duty to ensure that the standards by which they are governed or regulated attain the best levels of corporate governance. This report is an important step in achieving that and I can assure the rapporteur that he will have the full support of the  Group in this House.
Mr President, it is clear that safety is essential. Railway safety is good in most cases at the moment, and it is imperative that it remain good, at least as good as it is now. I extend my thanks to many of my fellow Members, therefore, for their valuable contribution to the debate on safety, and also to many people from the railway community, who have made a fair few suggestions, improved the texts, pointed out difficulties and so on.If a European rail transport market is established, there must of course also be a European safety system. We are creating that by means of this Directive: Common Safety Targets, a method for achieving those targets, and a safety authority in each Member State that uses a common method to give licences to all the parties concerned.Following the Council common position, we held a number of discussions, and there followed mediation by the Commission with representatives of the Council. We were able to eliminate a whole range of problems, as there were quite a few differences between the common position and our first reading. I have tabled a number of compromise amendments about these, which I ask my fellow Members to support, including compromise amendments concerning the driving licence for train drivers – for which we have found a solution via a new Commission proposal – and also concerning interoperability.I should also like to stress the importance of the agreement reached by the social partners (the trade unions and the European railway companies). Indeed, I should like to ask that the Commission transpose that agreement as quickly as possible, so that we also demonstrate that we attach great importance to the creation of a social framework for our planned railway reforms. I think that this is an important point, and that it must therefore be emphasised.A second point on which we reached agreement concerns communications and the crossing of linguistic borders, something on which I had laid a fair amount of emphasis. If Mrs Ainardi is in agreement, we shall move that point to the Directive on interoperability, and thus that, too, will be settled. There are two significant points on which we disagree with the Council, however. The first is the speed at which the new safety system should start off. The European Parliament wants to proceed more quickly, and I think that we should stand firm on that view.Secondly – as Mr Jarzembowski has already pointed out – working towards a European safety system implies keeping the number of new national safety rules that are introduced to an absolute minimum. Hence the importance of Article 8: the role of the Commission as supervisor of the system. We as a Parliament must stand our ground on that point. We have already reached agreement with the Council on a number of points, but one remains, and we do need to negotiate hard about this. Indeed, we shall see whether the Council is also able to follow up tomorrow the points on which we reached agreement. I think that agreement is possible, and we must strive to achieve it.I should now like to talk about the other reports and the whole package: we must keep the four directives as a single package. We must enter into the conciliation procedure on those four directives simultaneously. In general, the European Parliament is more in favour of an open European rail transport market and of European railway companies than the Council. The Council does not yet go as far as this: much less far than the Commission and Parliament. We must negotiate hard in the conciliation procedure in order to bring the Council a long way towards our position. The decreasing market share held by the railways speaks for itself: our Belgian railways again lost nearly 6% of the freight market in the first half of 2003. That is a very regrettable development. There is a small increase in passenger transport, but the situation regarding freight has taken another turn for the worse. I think that, particularly in our country, inland water transport and coastal water transport are poised to take over that market share. It is important, therefore, that the railways defend themselves much more effectively, that they ensure their presence on the market. The railways must become more efficient, much more dynamic, than is now the case. In some countries they are, but in others they definitely are not. Railway companies must not focus on themselves. They must focus on their customers, those who use their services, and they must focus on their service – ensure that they are giving their customers the best possible service – so that those customers stay with them, or come back to them. I think that this is important. Nearly every week I come across a company that says ‘We should indeed like to do a number of things by rail, but it is not possible. The railways are bad, too slow, too expensive, unreliable.’ In my opinion, these are very regrettable reports, and something must be done in this regard. That is the very first aim of this package of directivesI should also like to mention that what we are proposing here is not wild capitalism on the railways. That is definitely not the aim of the directives that are on the table now. This is not an asocial or antisocial package. Indeed, my request that the agreement between the social partners be ratified took its inspiration from the social sphere. This package gives the railways the opportunity of ‘recapturing’ the transport market. My use of a military term is deliberate, because if the railways do not win their share of that transport market back, we shall really see some very serious social carnage.
Mr President, Mr De Croo, after debating for 25 years, we are gathered here once again to discuss chocolate, such a polemical debate for such a sweet subject. We are talking about harmonisation, the harmonisation of tastes, of habits and, almost, of cultures. In short, chocolate is a dividing factor and the divisions are neither ideological nor even national, whatever some parties might think.What makes defending cocoa-producing countries an ideological matter, I ask you? It is an ethical matter. In terms of the social aspect, we are talking about millions of families who make their living from cocoa production. We have made formal commitments to them. So what is the reason for this time limit? Sixty-six months to carry out a study of the impact of this directive, such a time period is enough to cause irreparable damage to the export structures of these countries. The potential impact must be investigated in advance, that is clear.Moreover, if we must have harmonisation, for a consumer that is ever more demanding about the quality of what he eats and who, incidentally, has asked for nothing and has absolutely nothing to gain in this matter, in my view, the absolute minimum would be to limit the quality label or any other label of excellence to 100% cacao chocolate, real chocolate. Any other sort of harmonisation would mean lowering standards and that is not the sort of Europe that the consumer wants.
Mr President, I have heard it said that there is nothing left for the Greek Presidency, other than providing the after-sales service for Copenhagen. Nothing could be further from the truth. The Greek Presidency will have a key role in the birth of a reformed and enlarged European Union. But to ensure a smooth birth a good midwife is essential and I am pleased to see that the Greek Presidency seems well prepared to play that role.With regard to the reform of the Union, the Convention is due to report in Thessaloniki. As every good midwife knows, it is important to keep pushy relatives out of the delivery room and while the discussions in the Elysée Palace tonight will be important, they must not dictate the outcome of that Convention.It is also important to ensure that the baby is not strangled at birth by Member States fearful of an ambitious constitutional Treaty. I would therefore take issue with the President-in-Office and say we should not have a lengthy interim period. We need a short IGC, which should be a tidying-up exercise to ratify quickly the outcome of the Convention quickly.2003 will be the year when politicians must sell enlargement to the voters. Nine out of ten of the new countries will have referenda between March and September this year. We need to put far more effort into making the case for a 'yes' vote in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe than we have put recently into convincing citizens in our current Union that Europe is a 'good thing'. Liberal Democrats in this House and beyond are committed to campaigning in the new countries to make sure that we get a 'yes' vote and we call on others to join us.We hope in particular that the Greek Presidency can use its privileged relationship with many on the island of Cyprus to ensure that a united island joins our Union. Time is short, but recent developments, both on the island and in Ankara, have created a window of opportunity and I hope that you, Mr President-in-Office, will work with all parties to craft a compromise. I welcome the generous aspirations that you have expressed today in that regard.If the European Union is to succeed, however, for its current citizens and its new ones, it will need reform. As we approach the third anniversary of the ten-year Lisbon strategy, it has to be said that progress to date on productivity, growth, employment, investment, research and development has been disappointing. The continued economic slow-down is making structural reform more, not less, urgent and governments should not be deflected from the goals they set themselves. It will be important for the presidency to reaffirm commitment to a reformed Stability Pact, to focus on the underlying deficit, to give the Commission the power to issue early warnings to countries in danger. It will also need to stick to the timetable for the Financial Services Action Plan, which has already shown dangerous slippage, and to secure approval of the takeover bids directive.If you want someone to help you along this path, why not give the European Parliament more of a role in the follow-up to the decisions of the Spring Councils, in holding the Council accountable for the decisions that are taken? That is something we would do very well.Europe is of course though far more than a common market and your presidency recognises this. The Amsterdam and Nice Treaties have created a Community of values. I welcome the emphasis in your presidency's statement on the values of a generous, outward-looking and civilised society. You speak in your document of a planned legal immigration policy. Exposed as you are on Europe's southern and eastern flanks, you see the importance of understanding a little more and condemning a little less. The fact is that, as long as we keep out their produce and deprive them of the hope of economic development, we will take the people of the developing countries to the south and the east. We need many of them to deal with the problems of an ageing population here, or the brain drain problems the Commission President referred to. Let us work to close the back door to illegal immigration more effectively by offering legal opportunities to those wishing to settle here and integrating them properly in our society.I had a great deal to say about Iraq and the Middle East peace process as well, but my time is running short. I would, however, say that the Greeks are well acquainted with what we in the rest of Europe understand by the word 'marathon'. You take the baton from the last runner, Denmark, and try and cover as much ground as possible as quickly as possible, before handing it over to the next presidency. We wish you good speed in the marathon that you are running on our behalf.(Applause)
Mr President, this is in truth an historic day. I feel proud to be able to stand here in the Chamber on this solemn occasion when we are voting in favour of ten new countries’ being invited to become members of our European Community.It is an historic day for Europe. For the first time, we are uniting almost the whole of the continent by peaceful means – through agreements, compromises and treaties, rather than through war and conquest.It is an historic day for the European Parliament, which for so long has supported and given impetus to the whole enlargement process. The number of Member States is to increase from 15 to 25, and the number of MEPs from 626 to 732. In just a month’s time, when our future fellow MEPs come here as observers, we shall be given an initial foretaste of what this will be like.It is an historic day too for the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party. We have been passionately committed to enlargement. As long as three years ago, we began inviting future MEPs here as ‘virtual MEPs’ so that they might become familiar with our work here in Parliament. Perhaps we are the only group in Parliament that is unanimously and enthusiastically voting in favour of all ten countries, a fact I am very proud of. We shall be pleased to welcome our friends as fellow MEPs in order to be able to work together with them for a better future for the people of Europe.A unified Europe will give us incredible opportunities to work for peace, stability and democracy throughout the continent, to combat environmental pollution and cross-border crime and to increase the prosperity of all our people. The new countries will bring fresh and novel perspectives and ideas to bear in order to improve cooperation and give it new impetus. To help us do this, the Convention will, moreover, give us a constitution within the institutional framework.Despite the fact that matters may be rather chaotic to begin with, something extremely good will emerge if we only have patience. There is a famous Swedish poem that includes the words ‘chaos is God’s neighbour’, and that is something that rings true today. The EU will be involved in a constant process of enlargement for many years to come, so it is just as well that we get used to the idea.In common with other MEPs, we are naturally anxious about the débâcle involving the way in which the Council dealt with the budget and the interinstitutional agreement. I want to thank those fellow MEPs who have enabled us to find a solution. It has never been possible, however, to use such matters as arguments for voting against the accession of the candidate countries. Even if we deplore the fact that we in Europe have not been able to agree upon a common policy where the Iraq crisis is concerned, it would have been profoundly immoral to hold the people of the candidate countries hostage on account of what their governments have said or done. How can we expect the candidate countries to support an EU policy when no such policy exists?Despite the fact that we are all voting ‘yes’ today, we are not uncritical. There are still a number of problems and shortcomings in the candidate countries, for example when it comes to respect for minorities and the fight against corruption. That is something emphasised by Commissioner Vanheugen. We also deeply regret the fact that it was impossible to reach an agreement on Cyprus, so that a unified island might have joined the EU. We take it for granted that all the candidate countries will use the time remaining before they become full members to tackle environmental issues, to work on improving legal certainty and the protection of minorities, to fight corruption more effectively and to make efforts to combat the high incidence of human trafficking.Following enlargement, we expect to see mechanisms devised for making sure that all the Member States, new as well as old, respect and comply with the values for which the EU stands. Liberals will never be silent wherever violations of human rights and the rule of law are committed.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner Monti, on the subject of the report concerning the scoreboard, I wish, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, to say that we are not satisfied with the outcome of the vote in the committee and have therefore, together with the Group of the European People’s Party, tabled a number of amendments. On condition that these amendments are adopted, we shall vote in favour of the report. I would also thank the Commission for the work done on the scoreboard, which is a very useful tool for achieving the objective of a general reduction in state aid.I welcome the report on the Commission’s 31st report on competition policy. I am especially pleased with the support given by the committee to my proposal that consideration should be given to setting up a competition court, Article 225 A of the Treaty of Nice having paved the way for such a possibility. A competition court would increase the legal protection of European enterprises. A competition court would have to operate as a counterweight to, and supervisor of, the Commission’s experts on issues relating to competition policy. It would ensure that the Commission was no longer viewed as the body that both investigates and judges enterprises. It would make for greater transparency of the enterprises concerned. I absolutely do not want to see a weakening of competition policy in general. On the contrary. Nor do I want to see the Competition Directorate-General’s role in competition policy weakened. I want to support Commissioner Monti and all the other forces for good in their view that, in the future too, competition policy should remain precisely that, with no interference from other policy areas, such as industrial policy. I am delighted that Mr Monti is well disposed towards a European competition court.I would also take the liberty of looking forward and commenting on the Commission’s motion for a resolution for reforming EU competition law. Throughout the reform process, the  Group has supported the Commission in stating that reform is necessary. At the same time, we have maintained that this must not lead to a renationalisation of competition policy. The Commission has assured us that this will not happen and has referred to a network’s being set up, consisting of the Competition Directorate-General and the national competition authorities. I am confident that this network would be effective. At the same time, I would, however, put forward a proposal that I hope the Commission will consider. It is about creating a special unit or task force in the Competition Directorate-General whose task it will be to ensure, and monitor the fact, that the competition rules are applied equally in all the Member States. This is a large and important task that will become still greater with the forthcoming enlargement. I shall go into this in more detail in a letter to the Commissioner.
Mr President, I too am pleased about the progress we have made in 2003 in crucial areas such as the control of external borders, asylum, immigration and the prevention and combating of crime.As a Liberal politician with a fundamental belief in the basic freedoms upon which our democracies are based, I also think that 2003 is the time for some basic reflections upon the initiatives that have already been implemented and, especially, that are being planned under the overall heading of security.I fully acknowledge that the terrorist attacks of 2001 are cause for revising and upgrading our security. As I see it, the attacks of 2001 were above all attacks on the democratic values and fundamental freedoms that we cherish. It is therefore crucial that terrorism should not cause us to compromise in relation to these fundamental values. More specifically, I am thinking, for example, of third countries being permitted direct access to personal data in central reservation systems for air passengers, the introduction of armed marshals on aircraft and the introduction of biometric data into the travel documents of third-country citizens and into the passports of all EU citizens. Quite a few of these initiatives involve very extensive intrusions into the sanctity of private life, raising as yet unsolved issues in relation to current legislation on data safety and the risks of data being misused. I think, in actual fact, that it is time we now did some reflecting upon whether or not these security arrangements are out of proportion. In other words, do the initiatives comply with the basic criteria governing the fundamental freedoms that we, of course, specifically cherish in the European Union? Are the benefits of the initiatives proportionate to their cost? In this area, I am concerned that the Commission was not even in a position to inform me, as rapporteur, about the biometric data required of third-country citizens and about the precise numbers of visa applicants, falsified travel documents etc.The question I should therefore like to put to the Commissioner concerns whether or not the initiatives now being taken with a view to stepping up security are commensurate with a concern not to intrude upon the sanctity of private life and the personal dignity of EU citizens.
Madam President, I wonder whether history is repeating itself in Indonesia. The bloody confrontations between Muslims and Christians are jeopardising safety within the Moluccas. Thousands of people have been killed or have taken refuge, and the new fragile democratisation process, which has been initiated so ambitiously by the Wahid government, is under enormous threat. This is reminiscent of East Timor only a few months ago. As an MEP visiting with the observation delegation, I saw for myself how harrowing the effects of this can be. We need to realise that the violence within the Moluccas is threatening stability within the entire region. It is therefore vital that the international community offer immediate financial and moral support in order to solve the problems in Indonesia. The international community also has a duty to monitor the situation closely on a permanent basis and help the government there to end this human tragedy in whatever way it can.
Mr President, I too would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteurs, Mr Mastorakis and Mr Pomés Ruiz, for drafting very successful reports. Economic and social disparities between the Member States have lessened, but inequalities within the Member States have persisted and even deepened. The report reiterates Parliament’s stance on pursuing an inclusive Community cohesion policy.After enlargement a large share of regional and structural aid will go to the new Member States. That is inevitable. We must not, however, pit regions in difficulties in the present Union against poor regions in the new Member States. Through united efforts we can take care of both.Our group supports the main arguments in the reports. I am not going to go over the content of the reports again here, but I would like to highlight the importance of a few matters. The reports call for combining regional policy with other policies. With regard to economic, agricultural, transport and competition policy, for example, regional considerations should be taken into account more.When the Union enlarges, the need to reform regional policy will intensify. Our group backs the Commission’s aims to simplify and clarify regional policy and urges them to accomplish this. At the same time, we have to make improvements in result orientation and programme quality, and the role that the regions play alongside the Member States and the Commission must be strengthened. This will demand determined work on the part of the Commission and the Member States also. The new programming period can no longer afford the burdensome levels of administration that frequently afflict the current regional and structural policy, and the delays and apparent messing around that is associated with it.It is important that the special features of regions suffering from permanent geographical handicaps are recognised and identified and that solutions are sought for them. Islands, mountain regions and sparsely populated regions all have the same kind of problems. There are many in our group who have been active in trying to solve the problems of island and mountain regions. I myself know best the sparsely populated regions of the north. Development in the Union’s northernmost region is overshadowed by long distances, a low density of population, a cold climate and an ageing population as a result of people moving away in droves. The same region nevertheless holds many great opportunities.I am grateful to Mr Pomés Ruiz for proposing that sparsely populated regions in the north should be taken into account in the Union’s constitutional treaty. Mr Pomés Ruiz’s report has increased cohesion. We understand one another better now. The problems in the various less favoured zones can be solved through good levels of cooperation as part of the Union’s cohesion policy.
Madam President, I just wanted to correct what Mr Posselt said. He said that he did not think there was a quorum on the vote on Mrs Buitenweg's report. By my calculations, 242 people voted on that report including about 35 Members of the, and they should be congratulated on supporting that excellent report yesterday.
The purpose of the Dublin Convention and Eurodac is to allocate to a single Member State responsibility for examining an asylum application, and the justification for the proposed regulation is that there is a need to extend fingerprinting to certain categories of illegal immigrants on the grounds that a substantial number of them will have claimed asylum previously or intend to do so. The problem is that some have not and will not, so this means that the proposed regulation goes beyond the strict terms of Dublin by guessing at or anticipating the existence of an asylum application. Thus the Dublin Convention is, in the words of the UK House of Lords Select Committee on the European Communities, a shaky edifice on which to construct a system for taking and exchanging fingerprint data on those who have not yet made or may not make an asylum application. This is a legally uncertain basis for legislation and that makes me unhappy.There is also an absence of clarity in the definition of the illegal immigrants to whom the regulation will apply. Member States are required to fingerprint every third-country national over 14 who is apprehended in connection with the irregular crossing of their border – that is not very precise. Fingerprinting is a serious invasion of privacy and the compatibility of such requirements with the European Convention on Human Rights needs to be carefully weighed. I am not sure that this has really been done.There are also data protection worries, which is why Parliament wanted to extend the provisions on erasing data to include, for instance, those who obtain any kind of legal status to remain in a Member State even if not full refugee status. I am glad to see the amended proposal takes up Parliament's demand to erase the data when an individual has got a subsidiary or temporary form of protection, but could I enquire whether this would cover for example – in the system I know best – the UK's exceptional leave to remain?Finally, Mr President, whatever the justification for widening the Eurodac fingerprinting system to some categories of illegal immigrants, I am personally not convinced that this proposal is legally watertight. Are the Council and the Commission so convinced?
Mr President, firstly I wish to thank the rapporteurs, Mr Färm, Mr Podestà and Mrs Buitenweg, for their excellent reports. The package before us reveals the present state of EU budget administration: frankly, it is wretched. A full 16% of the entire budget for last year’s payment appropriations – EUR 15 billion – remained unspent. The implementation of the budget was the poorest on record. The figure for outstanding commitments has risen to EUR 110 billion, which is more than the EU’s annual budget. We are justified in asking whether there is any other organisation in the world which has such a disastrous record regarding the implementation of its budget.The situation is particularly poor regarding the Structural Funds. A total of EUR 10 billion of payment appropriations remained unspent, and, accordingly, there is an increase in the figure for outstanding commitments. While, at the start of last year, they stood at EUR 38 billion, in one year and four months they increased to EUR 82 billion. This shows that the EU’s structural policy is in danger of collapse unless its implementation gets a new lease of life. The present system does not work. The legislation should be completely revised.Next year’s budget is now beginning to take shape. It has problems with payment appropriations, which are at their lowest level for years – just 1.03% of Community GNI. This is actually EUR 4.72 billion below the ceiling set for the financial perspectives, although the increase in outstanding commitments has been explosive. There was no provision in the draft budget to reduce the RAL.Another problem is administrative expenditure, which exceeds the financial perspectives by EUR 66 million. The Commission is proposing the use of the flexibility instrument with regard to this. My group absolutely opposes this. Administrative expenditure must be able to be kept below the financial ceiling by means of internal transfers and savings. The flexibility instrument is meant to cover unforeseen expenditure.
Mr President, in view of the emotional debate we had about tobacco earlier this week, we should now take the necessary steps towards implementing the drugs policy in the Union more effectively. We must make the fight against drugs an absolute priority. Last week, I was confronted on my home territory with the fact that a study conducted at the weekend revealed that one in three young people use drugs. This is staggering news.Therefore, policy-makers at every level should be far more attentive to the situation. The role of the European Union is first and foremost to bring about harmonisation. We need to develop new initiatives to this end without delay, the hallmark of which must be decisiveness and vigour. We must not be content with paper exercises. What I find difficult about this report is that the Commission is required to submit a report on the setting up of the Monitoring Centre, as well as on any adjustment or extension of the tasks only every three years. This is far too long a period to my mind. We must be able to make adjustments on a continuous basis. If you want to achieve something your goals need to be more short-term.The drugs policy will only be effective if the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction is accorded a fundamental role. It is certainly not enough for the Monitoring Centre to act purely as a database, and I am only too pleased to support the rapporteur when he says that under no circumstances must the Community decision-makers be allowed to limit the mission of the Monitoring Centre to such an extent that it becomes a data bank with no critical dimension whatsoever.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank you all warmly for your remarks, but I should like to add something. The fact is that I am a little thrown by Commissioner Bolkestein’s statement. He said: ‘we are still negotiating and we will then determine whether what we are doing is adequate’. However, in my view, there was an adequacy finding before us, which you described as being in order. You have to make up your mind: either it is in order or it is not.To Mr Pirker, I should like to say that according to the Dutch Personal Data Board, there are 1 800 enforcement and law enforcement bodies in the United States that could retrieve this data.There are still a huge number of uncertainties and if even the European Commission is uncertain, why should Parliament give its approval at this moment in time? I am quite convinced that, if this continues, we will have to ask the EC Court of Justice to advise us whether, in its opinion, this agreement is adequate and whether a light agreement can be concluded which intrudes into the data of EU citizens so drastically. This is the only road that is open to us, and we have to take it because this light agreement has been decided on. Commissioner, I would ask you again to withdraw this agreement and present a better one.
Madam President, ‘Argos did inspire him in his search for the Other’, to quote Péguy on Homer. I would refer the detractors of the Morillon report to this. The Morillon report is not a pipedream. It is without doubt the most interesting and best-devised document on the subject I have been given to read for several years. I would like to explain why I am so pleased with this report. I see merit both in its ambitious objectives and in its realistic pathway.Others have explained that the timing of this report is opportune. Previous speakers have also highlighted its comprehensive nature. I would like to point to its sense of perspective and its excellent account of the institutional tools that need to be taken into account. I would also like to underline the very creative way in which it uses the notion of enhanced cooperation. It applies this to defence in a realistic and pragmatic way with the aim of establishing a genuine Community defence structure. In some ways, this report is a step-by-step guide to building a European defence architecture capable of adjusting to meet present and future challenges, especially terrorism.Madam President, too often we say that Generals prepare for yesterday’s wars. I do not want the future to herald more wars but we know that there will be many more conflicts. One particular General has urged us to prepare for current and future conflicts. He deserves our thanks.
Mr President, I have in front of me 26 candles. I am aware that this could set off a fire alarm and would therefore be grateful if you would allow me to make this point in advance of the report by the President-in-Office of the Council.I would like to ask the President-in-Office to comment on one issue which was not raised at the summit and which thefeels should have been raised: the continued detention without trial of 26 European nationals at Guantanamo Bay. These 26 candles are a symbol that these detainees should not be forgotten and, indeed, I hope that these 26 and all 600 detainees will have access to justice. I would ask the Italian Presidency, on behalf of the European Union, to raise this at every opportunity with the US Administration and to place it on the agenda for the next EU-US summit.The President-in-Office complains that he is a victim of injustice before the law himself and so he should be particularly concerned about this very real injustice on a far greater scale.
Mr President, I would first like to say that we are at the end of the International Year of Mountains, which was organised by the United Nations. I think it is very positive that Parliament is able to discuss Europe’s role in this matter, particularly at the end of the Year of Mountains.I would also like to welcome, along with the Commissioner who is present and those who are absent, the fact that we are witnessing a change in perspective. Over the years, my colleagues here and I have criticised the Union’s lack of interest in the problems of mountain regions. Today you have shown a different attitude, which was already evident in the October meeting organised on the Commission’s initiative around the theme of ‘EU policies and the mountain’, which included, among others, a speech by President Prodi.I appreciated your speech, Commissioner, because you succeeded in summarising the various issues. I would like to briefly go back over a few matters.First of all, as Mrs Guy-Quint said at the end of her speech, there is the major problem of introducing the issue of mountain regions into the treaties, which is absolutely essential. I think that we should take into account the important role of the Convention in this. We also need to make use of the two presidencies of the Council: the Greek Presidency and the Italian Presidency, two countries that are obviously affected by the problems of mountain regions. Introducing the issue into the treaties will provide an essential legal basis for obtaining a directive on mountain regions, in which we must of course solve the problem of competition. I therefore think that progress should be made in this respect.Having said that, we should also look at the prospects for regional policy for 2007-2013. Why not consider a specific structural fund for mountain regions? Or, better perhaps, for areas that are geographically or naturally handicapped? I will not add anything regarding agriculture. Agriculture remains essential for safeguarding mountain regions. The same can be said about tourism, which Mrs Grossetête discussed in detail.I would like to add a few words on the International Convention on the Protection of the Alps. Unfortunately, I do not think that the Commission has sufficiently monitored the work of this Convention. In this respect, we need to promote the transport protocol, in order to have a legal basis for taking specific measures to regulate the flow of heavy goods vehicles in mountainous areas. We obviously also need to look more closely at the issue of the funding of the major rail links such as Turin-Lyon, the Pyrenees and the Brenner pass, because in my view it is one of the keys to sustainable development in mountain regions.
Mr Commissioner, I can understand that you do not wish to change your decision despite the fact that ten Member States are against such a duty. I strongly disagree with you, Mr Lamy. I disagree with you on this matter just as much as I agreed with you this afternoon concerning the Korean shipbuilding policy. I believe it is important to emphasise that here we are looking at a coke industry that has only 800 employees, but that we have a user industry with over 6 000 employees that would be adversely affected in purely competitive terms by such an anti-dumping duty. I can however understand the fact that you still disagree with me, so I probably have nothing to gain from putting the question to you one more time, but I believe that you should take account of the fact that ten Member States are against such a duty.
Mr President, when you consider what happened under the former Commission, it might be said that there is not much to lose with this proposed decentralisation, and it is in any case crucial that something be done. If, however, decentralisation is not accompanied by the necessary powers, it might well turn out to be a two-edged sword. The delegations must have the right powers but so too, of course, must the headquarters itself, in the form of both knowledge and a talent for coordination. In my view, that combination is just a touch difficult to detect at the present moment.I am not actually too bothered about diplomatic schools and other such facilities, whatever they are called. I am, in fact, more concerned about more substantive and practical subjects, for example women’s issues and issues relating to ICT, and I should like to illustrate what I mean about the problems in the light of these two subjects. We most certainly have no guarantee, of course, that the delegations have any special knowledge of women’s issues and any special knowledge at all of women’s issues in relation to the developing countries. It might be said that the Commission used not perhaps to have any such knowledge either, but Parliament did, at any rate, then have the opportunity to exercise closer supervision, and that supervisory function declines somewhat when it is farmed out to the various countries.Nor is there any guarantee whatsoever that the delegations have any special knowledge of information technology. Certainly, they know how to send e-mails, but information and communications technology is certainly about rather more than just sending e-mails, and when, at the same time, the Commission says that there is absolutely no necessity for any unit in the Commission with specific knowledge of this area but that it is just a question of mainstreaming and general knowledge, then one might well be anxious about how those skills are to be acquired, including in the delegations. I would therefore hope that, in connection with the proposal to be produced by the Commission, the latter will be able to illustrate – for instance, with the help of the two examples I have quoted: women and ICT – how it is imagined that the development will take place.IN THE CHAIR: MR PROVANVice-President
Mr President, I am delighted to be making my first intervention under your Presidency.(NL) Mr President, on 10 June, all Europeans suffered an electoral defeat. By not voting, many people made it clear that they no longer have any faith in Europe as it now is. That is why it is an absolute priority for our group to restore our citizens' faith in Europe so that we are able to meet the challenges of the coming five years with credibility. For the same reason, my group finds it incomprehensible that Commissioner Bangemann should choose precisely this moment to take an extremely dubious step in his career. Unfortunately, this affair confirms the view that nothing will ever change in Europe. Whereas the whistleblowing official Paul van Buitenen is still waiting for his reputation to be rehabilitated, those at the top, such as Mr Bangemann, are evidently able to go about their affairs in the usual way.We democrats seek to restore the people's faith in Europe, which is no small challenge. That is why every European slip-up must be tackled, irrespective of who is responsible for it. Consequently, my group heartily endorses the fact that the Council intends to present this case to the Court of Justice. However, it would have been more fitting if the President of the European Commission had taken this step himself. This would have signalled an ability to put its own house in order, which would have been most welcome in view of recent events.
Mr President, the 2004 financial year will be an unusual one for several reasons. Firstly, our Budget will have to take into account the fact that, on 1 May of that year, ten new Member States will probably be joining us. For this to be possible, the financial perspective will have to be changed. Negotiations are still taking place on this subject, but, as far as Parliament is concerned, adoption of the acts of accession, and the figures they contain, should not automatically signify approval of the financial perspective. Further discussions will be needed on this subject.Parliament has a very strong preference for a budget to be adopted in December of this year for 25 Member States. That means that we shall have to work on the basis of 15 Member States for the first part of 2004 and then, as of 1 May 2004, for the ten new Member States on top. The budgets will therefore have to contain certain remarks to make this possible.Another new element of the 2004 budget to which I hope Members will become accustomed is a new system called ‘activity-based budgeting’. As I have said, everyone will have to become accustomed to this. What are the priorities of the 2004 budget? First of all – and Mr Prodi has already said this – we have to see to it that the economies of the new Member States are integrated into those of the present Member States. We must promote economic activity and, to that end, we must first of all create better investment opportunities in those countries, and we must look into all the means to make that possible.The second priority of the budget is improving administrative capacity in those countries. How will they be able to cope with the enormous sums of money they receive and how can they see to it that good projects are submitted?I now wish to say something about the various budget headings; starting with heading 1, agriculture. Everything will depend on the results of Commissioner Fischler’s mid-term review, but irrespective of this, we should like attention to be paid to a number of matters. First among these is the question as to the precise nature of the relationship between the payment of agricultural subsidies and European environmental guidelines. We shall have to determine this more precisely.The second point concerns the question as to whether it will be possible to develop insurance schemes in the future for animal diseases. We are currently seeing avian influenza in the Netherlands, and we have seen foot-and-mouth disease and swine fever. We shall have to look into this. Furthermore, is it possible to take further action to promote the sale of agricultural products, especially high-quality agricultural products?Regarding heading 2, structural funds, the main thing is that we have to do what we have promised. We have to see to it that the countries who have been told they may receive structural funds do actually receive these and that the administrative restrictions are not too restrictive. We shall have to investigate the consequences of the n+2 rule and the consequences of the 4% performance reserve.As regards heading 3, internal policy actions, a number of items under this heading have already been laid down. For the rest, we shall have to devote attention to what Europe can do in the field of combating terrorism – which is very topical at this time. What can be done better at European level than in the individual Member States? What can we do towards the establishment of an area of freedom, security and justice, towards better protection of the external borders and a better asylum policy? What can we do to improve nuclear safety in the new Member States? Lastly, I should like to raise another point: what can we do about the proliferation of agencies? It seems that every year yet more agencies are added. Is that not excessive? I should also like to raise a final point: what can we do about the ageing population of Europe?As always, heading 4 requires special attention, particularly at this time. What will be the consequences of any crisis in Iraq or a crisis in the Middle East? We shall be confronted by many more points, and we shall therefore have to keep a close eye on those.Concerning heading 5, administrative expenditure, we shall have to look carefully at the results of the Commission reform. We shall also have to see what the results of the extra allocation of officials have been which we have carried out in the past, et cetera.Regarding the last point, heading 7, a decision was taken in Copenhagen to categorise aid to Turkey under heading 7, and the Commission agrees. The Council, however, has also said that we shall have to wait until 2004 to look at whether negotiations with Turkey can begin. We shall have to look at whether this heading will have to be renamed and whether we shall have to divide it up into different sub-headings, et cetera.My final point – I can hear your hammer, Mr President – is that I am anticipating constructive cooperation with everyone in this Parliament, and especially with the many committees. Lastly, I shall also be paying special attention to the point raised by Mr Elles.
Mr President, Commissioner, I support what the rapporteur said about the importance of losing no time in getting this package approved. At the same time, my thoughts turn to how important the forthcoming Erika 2 package will also be in warding off the single biggest environmental threat to the Bay of Finland, namely the construction in Primorsk.We are on the way to landing ourselves in an extremely difficult situation in which what are perhaps the worst tankers in Europe are to be used to transport large quantities of oil in the sensitive Baltic. In connection with the discussion of this package, I would appeal to you, Commissioner, quickly to take such measures as will ensure that we obtain the ‘black box’ Mr Watts is talking about, as well as a reporting system for the Bay of Finland. Ice classification must also be taken into account in this context.At the same time, we must note that, even though it is the accidents that attract attention, deliberate emissions are unfortunately the source of the greatest pollution. There is much to suggest that prosecutors in the European Union must begin to cooperate better within the framework of Eurojust and, in that way, dare to address this phenomenon. Unfortunately, we are sent many reports, but the prosecutors rarely set to work.
Mr President, I have been most surprised by the arguments from the Council and the Commission suggesting that a marketing ban would be, as they say, 'not WTO-secure', yet the WTO rules in this area are distinctly unclear. It is just as likely that a marketing ban will prove to be 'WTO-secure' as it will 'WTO-insecure'. The point is this: the arguments about WTO rules are purely hypothetical. It is not entirely appropriate in my view to move from the arguments of substance for and against a marketing ban to a much more convoluted and esoteric debate about WTO law. A more honest approach – the approach advocated by this Parliament – is to adopt a marketing ban as soon as possible, and then deal with the WTO aspects separately in the unlikely event that our laws are successfully challenged in the WTO. That would be a better approach, both right in principle and right in practice.
Mr President, on a point of order. I wanted to raise this point yesterday, but you did not authorise me to intervene.I want to draw your attention and that of Parliament to the fact that on 29 April the Council signed two legislative acts without having had the opinion of the European Parliament, the pretext being that it had fixed a deadline which we had not respected.I want to point out that the same pre-emptive deadline has been fixed for today on the draft agreement with the United States on the air passenger data transfers – the so-called PNR agreement. To avoid the will of Parliament being negated, I request that you send a formal request to the Presidents of the Council and the Commission that they should abstain from taking any decisions before the Court has given its judgment, especially during this electoral period. This would be the minimum that we could expect in the framework of loyal cooperation between the institutions.The delay should not be too long because the Court has already announced a deadline of 6 June for the parties to present their arguments and it seems that the Court is speeding up its proceedings and may well reach a judgment before the summer. In those circumstances, it does not seem too much to ask that the Council and the Commission should respect both our institution and the Court of Justice, and not undermine the rule of law, given that the Court is willing to progress speedily. I fear these two precedents on 29 April. I ask you to invite them formally to abstain from signing the agreement.(Applause)
Madam President, I just wish to emphasise on behalf of thethe desirability of debating and voting this report this week.Despite the short timetable for the consideration of this matter, it has been dealt with very fully in the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs and there has been every opportunity for amendments to be tabled.It is regrettable that there have been administrative delays in producing all the language versions. However, I feel that there is a touch of opportunism in the PPE Group’s objections to a vote this week. After all, if it were technically impossible, the services would never have proposed that it be voted on tomorrow. Therefore, we should debate and vote on it tomorrow; otherwise there is a danger of obstruction by one group.
Mr President, on a point of order: I just wanted to engage in 30 seconds of navel-gazing. I agree with everything that has been said about reform. But when we talk about reform, let us not forget the conditions in which backbench MEPs work in this House. David Martin reproached us for not spending more time in the Chamber, but one of the problems is the amount of time we waste getting to this place. I will not relaunch that debate, but anyone looking at this splendid Chamber and the palatial public spaces of this building would not believe the cramped conditions in which a backbench MEP works. Please do not forget, you important people who have spacious offices – even the secretaries-general of the political groups have office space four times that of a backbench MEP – that when you have an assistant and a stagiaire crammed into one office, you have no place in which to meet visitors.Mr President, will you at least pledge to back us in getting computers for MEPs, preferably flat-screen computers so we can fit them on to our desks in our tiny offices and be more efficient for the 21st century? I am sorry to raise such a brass-tacks issue: I know parliamentarians are always shy about raising the matter of their own working conditions but, frankly, unless we can be efficient in dealing with our work, we cannot deliver good service and present a good showcase to the world. I would not like people to look at the masses of space in the public areas and then come and see our little cramped offices, out of which we lose a third for a useless bathroom – but that is another matter. Please help us to be efficient, Mr President.
Mr President, for more than a year we in Parliament's negotiating teams, together with the Commission and the Council of Ministers, have been struggling with a puzzle. We have all agreed with Baron Lamfalussy and his wise men that effective regulation of financial markets and the creation of a single financial market require us to delegate powers to the Commission and to a more nimble official committee. But there has been a key problem. Although this House was given the power of codecision vis-à-vis such legislation by the Maastricht Treaty in 1992, it was not given the power to oversee effectively the role of any committee. What we have seen of such committees in the past, we have not liked; they have been secretive, bureaucratic, Kafkaesque. One condition on which my group insisted was that this culture of secrecy must change fundamentally, opening up decision-making not only to us in Parliament, but to the world outside. We needed guarantees of transparency, openness and consultation. Here they are in the President's statement and in the letter that Commissioner Bolkestein addressed to the chairperson of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs.But how were we to ensure that those promises of a changed culture, so often honoured in the breach, were finally respected? It became clear that no lasting change could happen before the convention and the intergovernmental conference of 2004 had been concluded. Only an IGC could change Article 202, which basically gives sole rights of oversight of committees to the Council of Ministers, ignoring the new role of Parliament. We needed a promise that our concerns, ignored in successive treaty revisions, would be taken on board. We needed an interim solution that meant that Europe's savers and investors did not have to wait still longer before the completion of the single market in financial services, which was first launched in 1973. The health of the European economy depends on this legislation. A vital and dynamic economy depends on an efficient financial system for collecting savings and funnelling them at low cost to the most productive uses.It was long clear to thethat the only interim solution would be to put a time limit on the delegated powers. For the first time in EU legislation, we will have a sunset clause that will remove the powers of the Commission and the committee after four years unless they are used wisely and well. Thankfully, the initial opposition of the Socialist Group and the, together with concerns about legal uncertainty, were overcome. Any regulations passed by the committee will remain on the statute book even if its powers are suspended, but Parliament can bite if it needs to.This is an important moment for liberalisation of the European economy. The deal will underpin the euro – for what is a single currency if the markets on which it is traded are still divided by national barriers? It will give confidence that, whatever the challenges ahead for economic and monetary union, the European Union can surmount them, and it shows that Parliament is a serious and responsible legislature and partner in economic reform. The Lisbon reform process is back on track. I wholeheartedly congratulate Mr von Wogau, our rapporteur, and commend this report to the House.
The Dehaene Group’s plans are, by its own admission, very ambitious, but these plans are only ambitious in relation to the current situation and existing opposition. However, the proposals fall short with respect to the requirements of a Union numbering more than thirty Member States. If the Union was to have twice as many Member States as it has now, the decision-making process would completely run aground unless drastic changes were to be put forward, and they would have to be far more drastic than those that are now on the table. Inevitably, the competences of the Commission, as guardian of common European interests would be extended at the expense of the competences of the national governments represented in the Council. This would demand far greater democratic legitimacy on the part of the Commission than is presently the case, and it would be necessary in the long term for all Commissioners to be directly elected. Of course our Parliament would also need to be accorded the authority due to it. What has a revolutionary ring to it now will soon seem very realistic.
Mr President, I too must express my delight at the fact that the voluntary element has been emphasised in this communication on corporate social responsibility. It was something to which Parliament attached a lot of importance when we issued our opinion and, in the same context, we also attached importance to the exchange of best practice. I should like to ask the Commissioner how this multi-stakeholder forum is to be organised. We proposed that use be made of the Dublin Institute which already has experience of the exchange of good practice between the two sides of industry and which has a large network. Is the Dublin Institute involved in this multi-stakeholder forum? Have the costs there will be in connection with providing small and medium-sized enterprises with information about corporate social responsibility been included in the budget?
Mr President, Commissioner Bolkestein, ladies and gentlemen, since time immemorial, man has travelled in order to enhance his knowledge of other nations and to come into contact with other cultures. And since time immemorial, the travelling man has – legally or illegally – taken souvenirs from those other cultures. We only need to think of Lord Elgin or Napoleon, who both believed in the ‘finders keepers’ rule of thumb. It is evident that the cultural heritage of the country visited suffered damaged as a result of that.It is therefore to be welcomed that Europe is curtailing this practice. The important role which trade is playing in this cannot be underestimated. If we consider that art thefts from museums and churches are often by order of traders, we should indeed devote attention to this.Although, in my opinion, this is mainly a matter for the Member States themselves, coordination at European level in all fields is essential, particularly so, as Mr Aparicio Sánchez pointed out, in the field of police and customs cooperation.A first step to prevent theft is to draw up an inventory and detailed description, possibly with photographs, of the artefacts which belong to public and private establishments. But also the requirement to provide cultural goods with a certificate of origin has a preventive effect.It is obvious that a universally accessible digital network at European level would be priceless. I should therefore like to express the hope that this will be set up as soon as possible, especially in the light of the stolen goods and of those which have not yet been found. We should not only restrict our catchment area to Europe, but should involve the entire world via the United Nations. That is, after all, quite possible via the Internet. We need to start in Europe, however. I would therefore call on the Member States not just to protect their own cultural heritage, but also that of other countries. I am pleased to say that the Netherlands has already taken a step in the right direction. I hope that the other countries will follow suit, so that the illegal trade in cultural goods can be brought to a close.
Mr President, I would like to make four proposals to help the IGC reach a successful conclusion. Firstly, as regards the qualified majority formula, we need to raise the number of states needed to form a majority, while at the same time raising the population threshold needed to form a blocking minority. That should please the smaller states and not frighten those larger states which are genuinely committed to making it simpler for the Council to reach a decision. The sensible equation which seems to be commanding greater support is 55-55.Secondly, the IGC needs to drop from the constitution a specific number for the size of the Commission, a college which needs to grow and shrink according to supply and demand like any national administration. We should also drop the principle of equal rotation. Frankly, having a Commission without a representative from France would be fairly implausible. Mr Giscard d'Estaing himself concedes that the Convention's formula for the Commission was not the most glorious of our many achievements, and Commissioner Kinnock agrees.Thirdly, the IGC should be convened at summit level, preferably before 1 May, to enable a genuine political debate with a European dimension to be held. So far, unfortunately, this has simply not taken place.Fourthly and finally, our leaders need to find the moral courage to shape Europe politically. If they fail to do so they will be consigned to history as foolish cowards.
Mr President, let us remember that Egypt is one of the great ancient civilisations. It has always been a pillar of culture and progress since ancient days.Today, its recent former foreign minister is Secretary-General of the Gulf Cooperation Council. Egypt is primus inter pares in perpetuity in the Arab League. Yet we have these most unfortunate men charged with an offence that we in the European Union cannot accept as a matter of anything other than rank discrimination. In the light of the European Mediterranean Partnership that we have, we speak as friends of Egypt, because indeed Egypt today is still one of the foremost defenders of democratic rights and guarantees of democracy and human freedoms in the entire Arab world. We respect its culture, its background, its history, its religion. But still, as friends, and, in most particular, because of our deep profound partnership with Egypt, we ask it to think again.Today, in supporting this important resolution, we call upon the Council and the Commission to speak for Parliament in asking the Egyptian Government to think again.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I want to thank the rapporteur, Mr Pittella, for the fundamentally important work he has done with regard to this pressing issue. I was glad to see that the report takes a very similar line to that of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism with regard to the problem of outstanding commitments in respect of the Structural Funds. Many of the issues contained in our committee’s opinion have also been included in the report. The rapporteur has taken creditable account of factors that impact on the system, dealt with problematic issues critically, and proposes solutions with regard to the delays. In my opinion, the most important of these are the simplification and clarification of the system.Structural Funds payments have piled up to an alarming extent. The main procedure for controlling this trend in the current term is the n+2 rule. The rapporteur has found a sufficiently rigid and balanced approach to its application. The application of the n+2 rule is now facing its first real test, as payments requested by the end of the year are to be brought to the Commission’s attention and the overall amount will be seen.The Commission’s monitoring system and the way it reports to Parliament must be improved. One problem is the inadequate nature of Member State payment claim forecasts. In a system that is decentralised in the way it operates, Member States have an important responsibility for seeing to it that the system works as a whole. In regional policy it is time we switched from the debate on payments to one on the quality and effectiveness of measures. We will have the necessary ingredients for this when we have data based on the mid-term reviews. Above all, there must be a debate on quality and results by the Monitoring Committees at regional level. More reports and less bureaucracy serve as a guiding principle for better regional policy.
Mr President, the human tragedy and the facts of these cases are well known and, as Mrs Boudjenah quite rightly pointed out, they were well known long before the Dover tragedy. The political will has been made clear, indicating that it is time to pass a legislative act for identifying, arresting and punishing the culprits.Minister, Commissioner, you have truly disappointed me. You are not even following the line taken at the Tampere Council. The Tampere conclusions make a clear call for the Commission to submit a report on the implementation of the conclusions of the High Level Working Group on Asylum and Immigration for the consideration of the European Council in December 2000. This means that, in six months, you will have to draw up a report on what you have achieved. Listening to your speech, I have the feeling that I have been invited not to a Parliamentary sitting, but to a rather posh get-together. I had hoped that the Commission would go further, that it would have the courage, for once, to submit proposals, and that it would be able to do what the Council of Ministers is asking it to.Minister, the French Presidency may be content to make the point at the next summit, without any real desire to study the Commission’s report or to tell us whether the Commission is fulfilling its contract with regard to Eurodac. If, however, the French Presidency is not able to establish a concrete schedule for legislative procedures to be implemented at European level and to be transposed to Member State level, we will once again face failure, which will lead to another debate like today’s, following further deaths. Everyone will complain and Europe will not have made any progress.What I am really asking for is for the Commission to show that it is up to the task, and, in line with what President Chirac and Mr Queyranne said, for it to feel sufficiently chastised so that the work requested of it is sufficiently detailed for the politicians, Ministers and the Council finally to be able to take some decisions.
I would like to congratulate the rapporteur and the Commissioner on the result they achieved with this important report, which was very nearly the focus of more lobbying than any other report has been. Why was there was so much lobbying? Because the legislation stemming from this report will have an enormous impact on society, and the lobbyists must act as the mouthpiece of this self-same society. Ultimately, I myself am very satisfied with the result achieved, which struck a fair balance between the interests of the consumer, industry and the rightholders.Although I advised theto stick to the line of the common position, including the compromise amendments tabled by the rapporteur, and to reject the remaining amendments, in view of the attitudes within the group, I have taken the liberty of deviating from this line with my vote on the latterI believe that the purpose of copyright law is to protect the rightholders, and this could be done more effectively than the strategy adopted by the report.I have some concerns about the multiplicity of potential exemptions per Member State when it comes to copying rights, and about the possibility of being able to intervene in technical measures, because I feel this could disrupt the principles of the internal market.Reasonable recompense will always have to be paid in the case of exemptions imposed by the government, regardless as to who picks up the tab, because I think it is unjust that rightholders then have to offer their work for free. Regarding Amendment No 2, I believe that double payment must be avoided.The purpose of Amendment No 1 appeals to me a great deal, but the wording goes much too far for my taste in this case. Naturally it is desirable to be able to listen to, or watch, old recordings via the digital highway as well, but only with due recompense for the rightholders, and if they are demonstrably difficult to trace it is important to have a collective licence system in place which functions as a safety net.In the matter of caching, I would have thought it more desirable for this report to tie in more closely with the e-commerce directive.The digital techniques will ultimately start working in a self-regulatory way and I do not see that as a risk but as an opportunity for the further development of our society.All in all, I am very satisfied with the outcome, and I feel that it will give Europe legislation that strikes a better balance than the much vaunted American legislation.
Mr President, the  Group fully endorses the argument that Parliament has a right to be heard. In this particular week, however, I agree with Mr Ettl that it is appropriate to add something about the need for early involvement of the prospective new members in the tripartite social summit and the state of dialogue within those countries. The way in which trade unions and employers' organisations are organised varies considerably from one country to another, as does the manner and extent of collective bargaining. The development of employers' organisations is recent and sporadic and their activities are not always coordinated. Where confederations of trade unions and employers' organisations exist, they vary in the extent to which they participate in their equivalents at European level. Much therefore still needs to be done to develop the basis for social dialogue. I know that this issue is one that the Commission has already begun to address through a variety of measures. Its work is of major importance, since cooperation between the authorities, trade unions and employers' organisations is vital for economic and social development and thus for increased employment.As the Danish Presidency has recently said, tripartite cooperation and the social dialogue need to be strengthened if the new Member States are to be able to participate in the work on equal terms with all the other Member States.We must ensure that their voices, as well as our own, are properly heard.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the general debate I often hear that it was the farmers who fed their cows other, dead cows. It was unfortunate that they did that but, at that time and with the system we have in place, farmers were in no position to know exactly what they were giving their animals.Now that we are discussing the food and feedingstuffs chain, we must ensure that the whole chain, from A to Z, is imbued with a number of concepts – transparency, information and public access to documents. We have inherited a chain with many links and with large gaps between each link and the next. That also applies to feedingstuffs. Whether their farms be large or small, ordinary farmers buying feedingstuffs cannot at present be reasonably expected to know what these contain. They have no laboratories available to them and, given the way feedingstuffs look nowadays, they can glean no information about the content from either the appearance, smell or taste. Farmers therefore need significantly more transparency and significantly more precise information. I think that this proposal is too complicated and that, in the long term, we ought to be able to find common principles for food and feedingstuffs which are somewhat simpler and somewhat more comprehensible both to the farmer and the final consumer of the food, for example a declaration of contents in descending order of volume and precise information upon request. As the situation at present stands and in view of the fact that we are now at the beginning of this food safety process, the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party will nonetheless be voting in favour of this report.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would first and foremost like to express a word of thanks to the rapporteur who has indeed compiled her report with great care. This care is more than needed if we want to establish 'Enterprise Europe’ by 2005 and if we want to make the European Union into the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-driven economy in the world. The amendment to the report in the Committee, partly tabled at my proposal, emphasised that the multiannual programme must be used as an instrument to promote economic growth, full employment and social cohesion. I would like to stress that this is an important focus, which must be brought more to the fore in the information and information campaigns, because it cannot be emphasised enough that entrepreneurship and an entrepreneurial climate are both of key significance, and that this is the reason why particular attention must be paid to the education and training of young people, as well as to providing permanent training to staff of SMEs.Today, I would particularly like to make a case for systematically eliminating as many as possible, if not all, barriers which stand in the way of establishing the internal market, and for optimising the competitiveness of SMEs, allowing them to develop in a dynamic and sustained manner. In addition, I have always been an advocate of underpinning these goals with efficient and pragmatic policy. I am delighted with Mr Caudron’s final remark which amounts to investing less in ideology, but more in efficient and pragmatic policy, which means that red tape should be kept to an absolute minimum. In our Union, this should in the first instance translate into simplification of customs formalities, because the fiscal, social, administrative and regulatory disparities between the Member States in terms of costs constitute a substantial barrier to equal access to the internal market.Finally, I would also urge you to take into consideration the enlargement of the European Union which is upon us. The effective implementation of the acquis is necessary to ensure that enlargement becomes a win-win situation for the Member States and candidate countries alike.
Madam President, I want to highlight Paragraph 26 of Mr Olsson’s report on agriculture and enlargement. It is a question of taking the initiative and holding talks with the candidate countries about what a reform of the EU’s agricultural policy is to look like.Having myself worked on the food safety package for nearly three years now, I have reflected upon the incredible degree to which the reform will affect each and every one of the candidate countries. It is important that they should be involved now and that they should be able to contribute to shaping the European Union and the policy they will in actual fact have to live with.I am sure they all realise that the form of the policy that is to replace Agenda 2000 is more important to them than which cash subsidies they receive in the course of the year or two prior to the changeover.
Madam President, now that enlargement is approaching, a lot of people are getting cold feet, and concern is growing in both the present EU and in the candidate countries. What we have all dreamed about and fought for over so many years – a unified Europe – is on the verge of being achieved, and there is nothing odd about the fact that the questions are accumulating.In the candidate countries where referendums are to be held, a lot of people are probably wondering what they are getting themselves into. Many questions are being raised within the EU about costs and about how the EU is going to be able to function. Extremist parties are exploiting enlargement in their policies and playing upon people’s fear of the unknown.Political leadership is therefore required more than ever. The leaders of the candidate countries must resolutely continue with the required reforms before the negotiations can be concluded. They have done an impressive job, and a number of questions still remain. It is a question of never giving up and of being honest. A number of domestic problems will still remain following membership, for there is a life after the accession date too.Those of us within the EU also have a big responsibility: to tell people about the huge importance of enlargement and about what is at stake. Who believed that enlargement would be cost-free? Clearly, enlargement has its price, but in the long term we are all winners. We must also prepare a reserve plan to cover the contingency of there being a ‘no’ vote in Ireland.I believe the European Parliament has accepted its responsibility. We have stubbornly pushed ahead with the enlargement process, set a definite date for this and carefully reviewed progress. In the report we are now adopting, it is crystal-clear that we support enlargement, at the same time as highlighting a number of problems. We too have a responsibility to convince people of this historic task.It is an historic opportunity to unite the whole continent. Together, we can solve common problems relating to environmental damage, crime, growth, security and the safeguarding of democracy and human values.A short time remains, and I am convinced that the Copenhagen Summit in December will be an historic occasion and lead to the EU’s biggest and most important enlargement so far. Enlargement is irrevocable and absolutely necessary. The alternative is chaos, uncertainty and a fatal division of Europe.
Mr President, I, too, should like to thank the rapporteurs for their work and congratulate them on the result, especially Mr Casaca, who this year took care of discharge to the Commission. What is remarkable about this debate is that, on the eve of next year's European elections, we once more have a Commission which has not received a positive Statement of Assurance from the European Court of Auditors. Nevertheless, my group will align itself with those who wish to grant discharge.What are our reasons for doing this in spite of that negative, or non-existent, Statement of Assurance? First of all, many reports by the Court of Auditors have revealed that there have been improvements in the administration of the Commission. Secondly, a Financial Regulation has been adopted. We believe that that Regulation must be given time and chance to take effect, and we are giving the Commission time to do that. Our third argument for granting discharge is that, if we do not do so at the present juncture, on the eve of enlargement, it will make an extremely bad impression on the new Member States: that is to say, that we are in effect packing the Commission off home. Nor could we do that. Our final argument for giving discharge is that we have found the attitude of the Commission towards this Parliament very positive in recent years. Requests for information have met with a satisfactory and timely response, and even the response to Parliament’s own-initiative reports has been positive. Consequently, we recommend discharge.The crucial question for us remains: what does the Commission need to do in order to obtain a positive Statement of Assurance? The Court of Auditors does not say in its reports. Every year another surprise awaits as to what they have to say, and another whole list of things that are going wrong emerges. I think that it is good that the Commission is now entering into discussions with the Court of Auditors, and that it is then going to inform Parliament of the criteria and timetable it intends to keep to in order to obtain a positive Statement of Assurance.I should like to say a little about agriculture. The most striking feature of current agricultural policy is that it is no longer based on price support, but rather on income support – the integrated administration and control system. The irritating thing is that this is applied differently in different European countries. That is unacceptable. In a united Europe, the systems should be the same. I would therefore draw the attention of the Commission once more to an own-initiative report – which it so happens was drawn up by me, but was approved by plenary session – in which we point out that, if the administration of agricultural expenditure in the new and existing Member States concerned is not in order, the Commission must suspend advance payments much more often until the system is in order, instead of carrying out controls after the event and imposing penal charges.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mr Purvis, the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has participated with interest in this work aimed at the future. We have produced an opinion that is forward-looking and constructive, and, at the same time, balanced. We wish to take into consideration the principle of safety when it comes to consumers, the work of farmers, and the whole food processing chain. Our first message is that biotechnology is one way of developing agriculture, which is now struggling with problems. It offers opportunities for the production of non-food goods, such as new biofuels, plastics, and so on. It offers opportunities for using fewer pesticides and having a positive impact on the environment.What is essential for farmers is that they should derive some financial benefit when the new technology is introduced. That has not happened in the United States with regard to what are called first generation genetically modified products. The European aim must be to improve the financial position of farmers by achieving better quality and efficiency through the use of technology. Biotechnology could have immense importance for regional policy. It offers opportunities for regions where natural conditions are harsh. This also applies to the situation in the developing countries.On the other hand, there are dangers associated with new technology, which are worth bearing in mind as early on as possible in any decision-making policy of the EU. Farmers may become dependent on large, multinational companies in the processing industry. To prevent the concentration of development, the EU must guarantee there are adequate public resources available for research, and support research and development in small biotechnological enterprises and plant-breeding institutes. It will be very important to guarantee competition.Our committee is satisfied with the work of Mr Purvis and the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, as our amendments were taken account of at the committee stage. We would hope that the Commission will read carefully those requests that appear in the report inter alia to measure the net impact on the environment.
Madam President, on a point of order, I appreciate the Commissioner's answer, which is very clear, but he said that he had organised a special meeting on open software to stimulate the use of open software by the public sector. My question is what is the Commission itself doing? Is it also going to switch to working only with open software, so that for us too there is more protection in this field?
Clearly, enlargement of the European Union is the most important issue for the immediate future. We understand that you have discussed the progress reports which are to be published next week. Now, part of this progress towards enlargement – that concerned with cooperation on legal matters and between countries of the EU as it stands at present – is not being overseen by the Commission but by the Council of Ministers. All right, so we know this, but will any progress within this area be described in your reports? Or is there a risk of the Council not making it public? It would be very worrying if that were the case and if we in Parliament or our opposite numbers in the countries which are candidates for accession to the European Union were unable to study the progress made.Now, another small question by the way, Mr President of the Commission. Have you anything against your letter to Prime Minister Lipponen about the Tampere Summit being published? It has been published in Sweden, and I imagine that you, with your policy of openness, would not object to its being published. Prime Minister Lipponen, however, refuses to let it be published in Finland. How do you view this?
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is of course hard to try to bring about an agreement at first reading. Will, knowledge and cooperation are required. I wish to thank all those of my fellow MEPs who have contributed their opposition to, and support for, this process. It has been hard, but it has been extremely constructive.I shall address some of the aspects that are most important to me about the proposal. One such aspect is its scope. I am exceptionally fortunate that the inspections now extend to include animal health and welfare. That probably constitutes Parliament’s greatest success in this hugely sensitive area about which the electorates in all our countries are extremely concerned. Another aspect is the transport of animals through Europe, and it is important that this is at least included in the control programme.Parliament has also contributed the control of labelling while the inspections are under way. The Member States’ own control programmes must state that the inspectors’ tasks include that of checking that the labelling on food packets is correct, that it complies with the rules and that the contents and declaration of contents do in actual fact correspond with each other. That is a crucially important point for us as normal consumers when, on an ordinary Thursday afternoon, we are to do a bit of quick shopping for the evening meal. The fact that the whole chain is to be included – right from the field to the shop, dining room and restaurant – is the principle that of course permeates the whole of the food safety legislation.Another aspect, about which I am both disappointed and pleased, is transparency. A clear majority of the committee demanded a name, shame and fame system. It was not possible to implement this because the Member States invoked legal and constitutional reasons why it should not be. As a Liberal, I perhaps eventually realised that it is probably not the state’s and the authorities’ task to say that the one producer is good and the other bad. With the system of transparency that now exists in this regulation, we have handed over this name, shame and fame function to civil society. A consumer group, animal protection group or local media organisation will be able to request the inspection reports and thus be responsible for this function, telling people how things appear behind the scenes.The funding of duties is a very controversial issue – not between the Commission, the Council and myself but within Parliament. Some people want to see a permanently fixed duty, which is set in stone and the same for everyone. That would perhaps be very good, but it has been tried and has failed. Not all countries within the EU are exactly alike. The same basic conditions do not apply from Portugal to Finland or from Ireland to Hungary. I do, however, think that the proposal now before us is nicely balanced. Duties are to be collected, but it is clearly defined which duties are to be included. Special account is also to be taken of small, traditional companies, something I think is very important. It is important for us in the European Parliament to protect the small producers of unusual products that are the essence of Europe’s cultural heritage in the area of food. We must defend them and give them a chance. They must not be exempted from the thinking about safety, but less harsh duties might in actual fact be imposed upon them in the context of this control.I would appeal to you all firstly to vote today despite all the problems that exist and, secondly, to fall in with my compromise vote list. Finally, I wish again to extend my many thanks to the Commission and the Council and, above all, to the Italian and Irish Presidencies. Thank you very much for your fantastic cooperation.
Madam President, it is all very well Mr Poos saying that the Quaestors asked for the air quality check. I understand that the staff asked for an air quality check before this building was opened. I asked for an air quality check in January. Why has it taken so long to get that air quality check? Usually, in a lot of countries, if legionella bacteria is found in any part of a building, that building is closed.
Mr President, Commissioner, last week I visited Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republika Serbska. Ladies and gentlemen, it is only ten years since the atrocious killing and massacring of innocent people was begun in the middle of a Europe which we had all promised would never again see mass graves containing desecrated corpses. That was not to be the case. Mass graves are being found today and the remains of corpses identified. I myself saw the remains of 500 people laid out in a line in industrial premises.Mr President, never before have the EU’s shortcomings been more evident. When the refugees began streaming in, the EU acted slowly and was completely powerless to act. What was lacking was a common approach. Mr Marinho’s report, like the Commission’s proposal, is therefore extremely important. I want to praise the rapporteur for the work he has put in and for the sensitivity he has shown.We in the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party accept the basic principle contained in the proposal, relating to the way in which asylum seekers are to be regarded, how the issue is to be dealt with and what exceptions there are. However, we wish to make the rules more predictable and to increase the consideration given to the wishes of the individual. A number of the proposals were also very properly accepted by the committee.Allow me to mention a number of important points. Increased account must be taken of individual wishes concerning the country of asylum. These are people we are dealing with! The rules determining which country is responsible must be characterised by the rule of law and by predictability. In the case of an asylum seeker who is still a minor, a person other than a relative and who has close links with the minor must be able to obtain custody of the child if it is in the latter’s interests. The country of asylum responsible can therefore be decided in terms of such factors. It must be possible for asylum seekers who have family members in a particular Member State to have their applications examined in that country.Appeals concerning which country is responsible for examining the application must have a delaying effect so that asylum seekers are not moved to another Member State during the waiting period. It must only be possible to release personal data concerning asylum seekers to the Member States concerned and not to all the Member States, as proposed by the Commission.Allow me to highlight especially Amendment No 12, which Mrs Klamt also touched upon. It is our view that partners and cohabitees, irrespective of gender, should be counted as family members in Member States which treat unmarried and married couples equally. The Commission is unclear about this point, and clarification is needed in this area. It is my hope that the House will be able to support this proposal tomorrow.In conclusion, I want to put a direct question to Commissioner Vitorino. In my view, the type of abuses that go on at Sangatte near the Channel Tunnel, with people shunted about and responsibility divided between different Member States, should be rendered impossible by the proposal you have produced. What are you doing to ensure right now that there can be no repetition of the events at Sangatte? What are you doing, in conjunction with London and Paris, to ensure that this proposal can become a reality straight away?
Mr President, I will be brief because I have lost my voice – and I do not mean politically, I mean physically! It is clear that a battle royal is going on within one of our larger Member States. The main protagonists in that battle royal happen to be the current President of the Commission and the current President of the Council. It would be unrealistic to suggest that people in such positions have not had a political past, or do not have a political future to look forward to. There is a question mark over whether the occupants of those posts should be engaged to such an extent in such a political battle while holding those offices. But it would be naïve of us to assume that such battles will not continue, and indeed naïve of this Parliament not to imagine that such people will take those positions.
Mr President, naturally I too regret that the United Nations have not found a solution to the conflict in Iraq. I also think, however, that we must all acknowledge that this stage in the discussion is now finished and that we in Parliament must stop shadow-boxing with the past.After all, we all agree that Saddam Hussein has been categorically opposing the United Nations for the past 12 years. Throughout his rule he has oppressed his people and violated international law in many areas. That is why the members of the Security Council accepted Resolution 1441, and they must therefore now bear the consequences. Anyone who does not do so is, despite protests to the contrary and perhaps also unintentionally, implicitly helping to keep Saddam in power. Explain that to the inhabitants of Basra, who are being fired at by their own Iraqi army.This does not help international law and the Iraqi people in the slightest. The crisis once more makes it painfully clear that we need a European foreign and security policy and ultimately a European defence force so that we can play a role in the next crisis. It is no use lecturing other people about international values if you are not able to enforce international law yourself.I felt that the European summit was not able to avoid deadlock on its other subject, the Lisbon process. Of course, this will get us nowhere when it comes to economic liberalisation. Good intentions are all very well, but I would like to see the Commission set up a strict schedule for the implementation of the measures so that the Member States can be reminded of their responsibilities.To conclude, therefore, I warmly welcome Commissioner Monti’s initiative in investigating the banned state support for the French energy group Electricité de France. It is absolutely essential that we complete the internal market in order to be able to continue to compete with the USA and Japan.
Madam President, with regard to the Chechens, we risk being guilty of the same crime as European passivity towards the genocide of the Jews: the crime of indifference. Indifference makes us accomplices. 80 000 people have died in Chechnya since 1999. Hundreds of thousands have been made refugees. Yes, we appreciate Russian cooperation in the fight against terrorism, but that is no reason to turn a blind eye to humanitarian atrocities by both sides in Chechnya. The only way forward is negotiations for a political solution, a referendum and elections. The OSCE mission must be allowed to stay as an aid to that process, just as the Russians are in Kosovo.The Russians are trying to extradite Ahmed Zakayev, the envoy of the Chechen president. The Danish Government refused, due to lack of evidence of his participation in criminal acts. The British Government, now considering a similar request, should tell the Russians that, on the principle of mutual recognition of judicial decisions in the EU, we recognise the considered Danish decision and refuse his extradition to Russia. Otherwise there is no point in having this principle of mutual recognition of national decisions within the European Union.
Mr President, thesuspects that the government of Israel is applying the origin rules of the Association Agreement in a way that derives from its settlement policies. No other explanation can justify the proofs of origin being issued to both manufactured and agricultural products – produced in settlements – which we consider illegal and therefore not covered by the agreement. These include chives, non-woven textiles, wine, snack foods and so on. Although they are given customs access by the EU, they are actually produced in West Bank settlements such as Barkan, the Golan Heights settlement of Katzrin and the Gaza Strip settlement of Gush Katif.This is not a new issue. We know that the Member States are unable to reliably distinguish which consignments are eligible and which are not. We know that the Commission has compiled a list of settlement products and exporters, and is trying to expand the list. We know the list is incomplete and that Member States have not found it possible to identify, when shipments are presented for clearance, what products they contain.The situation cannot continue for two reasons. Firstly, Liberals attach great importance to rules; here we are seeing a consistent, persistent breaking of the rules. We recognise there are difficulties. The Commission and the Member States bear separate and full responsibility for this, since they both have obligations to act to solve the problem.It may be that those in the Commission who want to discharge their guardianship responsibility have insufficient political support within the Commission. The Member States that want to help have insufficient support in the Council. That is why this Parliament and the Member State parliaments need to act.Above all, it is the duty of the government of Israel not to play tricks with a signed agreement. Israel should understand that this is not the time to do that. Unless they respect the clauses of the Association Agreement, the Israelis will have difficulty in convincing the rest of the world that they are acting in good faith in issues such as the peace process as a whole.
Mr President, we have just been informed by Reuters that the Laos Government is prepared to pardon the two journalists and the American interpreter who were arrested on 4 June and sentenced, on 30 June, to fifteen years in prison for unproven acts, which caused widespread indignation. I have here the communiqué, dated 1.30.p.m: ‘the Laotian Minister for Foreign Affaires awaits a request from the governments of the countries from which the three men come: Belgium, France and the United States, for their pardon’ – which will of course be granted if this has not already been done. We can only welcome the effective role played by our Ministers for Foreign Affairs and by the diplomats in the area, a role which, without a shadow of a doubt, has led to the prisoners’ imminent release.Although we rejoice in the outcome of these actions, we remain extremely concerned at the fate of the four Laotians who were accompanying Thierry Falise and Vincent Reynaud and who, we are told, could face a sentence of twenty years in prison. We also appeal to the clemency of the Laotian Government. Too many journalists have paid with their lives or have been given stiff prison sentences for having done their job, which is to inform people.We recall that freedom of expression is a fundamental right. We expect the Commission and the Council to support the actions of our diplomats and we hope that our European office in the region will intervene to ensure that the four Laotian citizens are also released. We wish to state, Mr President, before this House, all our solidarity with the journalists and with their families, who have been through such a hard time and assure them that the European Parliament, the guardian of freedom, will relentlessly defend the right to a free press, the right to free information and, more than ever, human rights, whatever regime is in power.
Mr President, Commissioner, so here we are again, and I am again trying to get this House to realise the importance of changing the current rules on value added tax exemption on postal services. The committee and plenary rejected my proposal a few months ago, so now Mrs Lulling and I are back with a list of amendments to appease our critical fellow Members. I would, as the Commissioner says, have preferred that the Commission proposals had been adopted straight off, but there was no majority for doing so.The market is being liberalised at both European and national level. Several old government postal and telephone companies have been converted to public limited companies. They need different rules. The current unequal tax treatment not only hampers the development of open markets, and thus the deregulation of the postal services, but it also distorts competition and makes it more difficult for both the public and private operators to compete. The economic impact on consumers would be negligible. It is the famous increase of a penny per stamp, or no increase at all. There can even be a price reduction if the Member States use a reduced rate. Those postal operators mentioned by the Commissioner are subject to VAT. They will also be able to reclaim input VAT paid, thus lowering their overall costs. This is good for new investment and the modernisation of old monopoly companies. I should like to emphasise this.We have made some amendments since the last reading. It is proposed that the weight limit for the reduced rate for standard mail be raised from 2 kg to 10 kg. This is one of the weight limits set by the International Postal Union (IPU). In this way, important pieces of standard mail would be included in the reduced rate range. This includes newspapers, weeklies and other parcels.The entry into force of the directive is postponed until 2007. This will give enough time to the Member States and postal operators to adapt to the new provisions of the directive. This also fits in with the different liberalisation stages envisaged for the postal market.It is also recommended that the Member States which, on 1 January 2003, applied a super-reduced rate might continue to apply that super reduced rate to postal services. We also have suggestions regarding various organisations that deal with gifts and the like.I hope that these compromises are sufficient. It would be unfortunate if nothing were to happen at all. The biggest issue that has been dealt with recently is the case of Royal Mail. Other providers of postal services, according also to the Commissioner, support this proposal. The industry approves. Data from the national regulator, Postcomm in Great Britain prove that removing the VAT exemption for public operators would not result in price increases for users. It would, on the contrary, create a level-playing field ultimately leading to increased competition, greater choice for postal users and lower prices.I spoke to a leading employee of Postcomm who told me that there was no reason for Royal Mail to retain this VAT exemption as it was not needed to protect either Royal Mail or the users. Rather, the opposite is the case.It is a shame that I have been unable to convince so many intelligent fellow MEPs such as Mr Goebbels, Mr Skinner and Mrs Villiers, and particularly my own party colleague Mr Huhne, to adopt a sensible line of thinking. This is regrettable, and I can but state that if Parliament rejects my proposal again tomorrow – as, unfortunately, there is much to indicate that it will – then I have failed horribly. Maybe we can live with this, as I myself can live with it, but it is however Europe’s consumers who have lost. They are the big losers. I hope that my fellow Members can consider this, if only overnight before the vote tomorrow.
Mr President, I would also like to thank the rapporteur for an excellent report. Experiences from last Monday reconfirm that this is a very important report indeed. Many Members of Parliament had a journey here to Strasbourg of up to fifteen hours. Flights were cancelled, and many were severely delayed. This situation is absolutely intolerable. Airspace is badly congested, flights are continually late and the rights of air passengers are totally non-existent.The report proposes relevant action that must be put into effect right away. However, I do not believe that it will be sufficient, as air traffic is expected to double over the next ten years. Short flight routes must be withdrawn in favour of rail, leaving room for longer flights, as there are simply no alternatives to these. Reports aimed at improving the competitiveness of rail transport are, from this point of view, very important. Environmental levies, which are being planned for air traffic, should not constrict long flights unfairly, but should work as an incentive to withdraw short flights in favour of rail.
Mr President, I too would like to repeat all the thanks that have been conveyed to all those involved in this excellent committee of inquiry, particularly the Chairperson, Mrs Redondo Jiménez, and Mr Kreissl-Dörfler, both of whom played exemplary roles in the whole process. I would also like to register a note of thanks to the countless people in the United Kingdom who helped organise our visits to the various parts of the UK during the course of our investigations. It was quite a challenge for many of them to deal with this rabble of argumentative poly-lingual MEPs who suddenly descended upon them, but on the whole those visits went extremely well.The report, as many speakers have said, is judicious and balanced. It is bold and forthright in exactly the right areas, particularly on vaccination and import controls. The report conveys some very clear messages about what should be avoided in the future and what should be done in the horrific eventuality that another outbreak occurs. On both of those points, it is clear that the report has already had an influence on the shift in public policy which is starting in the United Kingdom. I would join Mr Sturdy and others in saying that the response, particularly on the issue of import controls – certainly within the United Kingdom – is still too slow. Insufficient resources have been allocated to that important task.I see that theGroup and the rapporteur have tabled some amendments to protect the reputation of the United Kingdom Government. I would only suggest to my colleagues that they should not be so over-sensitive. It is simply part and parcel of the independence of a committee of inquiry such as this that there should be some critical remarks. Frankly, it is an aspect of independence that the government has deliberately shunned by refusing to hold its own public inquiry in the UK.Some of the amendments which have been retabled seem to be just plain wrong. I pick out arbitrarily an amendment which says that there was no evidence of health or environmental problems arising from some of the burial sites in the south-west. I would invite my colleagues, for instance, to see and visit, as I have, the Viridor site near Kingsteignton in the south-west and then come back and say to me with any real confidence that they think there are no environmental or health effects. If they speak to any of the residents in that locality, they will see what a silly amendment that is.Finally, I would ask colleagues to pay particular attention to paragraph 128 of the draft report. The  Group will be asking for a split vote to delete the last sentence of paragraph 128. That last sentence suggests that any compensation in future should be conditional on appropriate insurance mechanisms being in place. We are very keen that a study should be made on the feasibility and the pros and cons of insurance systems, but we do not feel it is appropriate at this stage to make any future compensation automatically dependent upon the existence of insurance schemes.
Mr President, I too find it sad, as well as quite unnecessary, that we should have this dispute about the budget. It is hard to understand why the Council should disregard Parliament’s powers and not implement the revision of the multiannual budgetary agreements, or financial perspectives, as might otherwise have been anticipated and as was done in the case of previous enlargements.Parliament has certainly shown great understanding for the fact that the difficult negotiations concerning the new Member States’ portion of the budget for agriculture and for the Structural Funds are not to be reopened, but we have indicated that what is required must be examined under the heading of internal policy, or expenditure category 3, for there are a number of problems and, if we do not adjust the budget in the next few years, high-priority areas such as the social dialogue, internal security, training, police cooperation and the creation of a secure working environment could suffer as a result, and we should be unable to fulfil our political priorities. Allow me to give an example. Many ordinary people fear that enlargement will mean competition from the new Member States in the shape of businesses that do not care two hoots about the working environment.The new Member States must of course implement EU legislation on the working environment, but what really counts is what is happening out there among businesses. There is a need to change the culture and to bring about greater awareness, both among businesses and employees, of the need for a secure working environment, and that is something we can do through our agency in Bilbao and by way of the social dialogue. What it requires, however, is an adjustment of the budget, partly because the pre-accession aid in the shape of the Phare programme will dry up as from the end of this year, so the work will in actual fact come to nothing if we do not take action.The Council must respect Parliament’s powers, Article 272 of the Treaty and the Interinstitutional Agreement. Anything else would be unacceptable and a declaration of war.
Thank you, Minister, for your first response during your presidency. I am especially pleased that we are able to see Mr Richard here. It is extremely important that the growth of our European security and defence policy commands full public support and respect, and strong and credible parliamentary scrutiny is certainly the way forward.
Mr President, on Friday next week there is a vote on who will be hosting the 2008 Olympic Games. The Olympic Games are an opportunity for men and women from all around the world to come together to compete on equal terms, in a spirit of peace and cooperation between nations. That is the theory, despite the fact that a large number of participating countries are brutal dictatorships which hold both democracy and human rights in contempt. The Olympic Committee has a responsibility to promote the values which lie behind the Olympic Games. We in theGroup have demanded that the International Olympic Committee set up guidelines for the countries which are to organise the Olympic Games, guidelines which include respect for human rights and democratic principles.One of the hottest tips for the Olympic Games is Beijing. Beijing is the capital of one of the world’s most hardline dictatorships. Persecution of those with opposing views, torture, censorship of the media and the Internet and more executions than all other countries put together are just a few examples of the way the Chinese regime tries to keep its population in check. The occupation of Tibet and the oppression of its people continue, and religious minorities are not allowed to practise their religion. For two years, there has been a systematic persecution of followers of the Falun Gong movement, with tens of thousands of followers being arrested and tortured, in some cases to death. In recent days, 15 women in a Chinese labour camp were tortured to death, with the authorities saying that it was suicide.Those who want Beijing to host the Olympic Games say that sport and politics should not be mixed. However, that is exactly what the Chinese regime will do. If Beijing were to host the Olympic Games, the propaganda value for the Chinese regime would be enormous, and it would reduce the pressure on the country to change its policy.In a report on Beijing’s candidature for the Olympic Games, the International Olympic Committee writes the following: ‘The overall presence of strong governmental control and support is healthy and should improve operational efficiency of the Games organisation.’ Calling the oppression ‘healthy’ is hair-raising.Human rights activists of all kinds are united in their demand not to let China organise the Olympic Games. A decision in favour of the Olympic Games in China is a breach of the whole Olympic ethos. The  Group would therefore like to appeal to all members of the International Olympic Committee to vote against Beijing on Friday.
Mr President, my group, the, wants to make three points, largely in the form of questions.First of all – and this point will appear in the compromise resolution which is not yet in print but it is certainly in our own resolution – my colleague, Baroness Nicholson of Winterbourne, points out that the United Nations is extremely slow, or has been in the past, to respond when there are reports of breaches of use of these weapons. For example, when Saddam Hussein, in the early 90s, used these weapons in the marshes of Iraq, it took the United Nations three and a half weeks to get inspectors there, giving Saddam Hussein plenty of time to cover up the evidence of his crimes. Would the Council kindly point out to the United Nations that we need a much quicker response than three and a half weeks if such incidents happen in future, as we fear may happen.Secondly – and this appears in the's resolution and also in the compromise resolution – the anthrax problem in the United States has drawn all our attention to the need to react quickly and to analyse what is happening. There is no European Union-wide agency looking at this although, in the USA, there is the Centre for Disease Control in Atlanta. Would the Commission be willing to undertake to propose the creation of a European Union agency, under its control, which would coordinate the work of the relevant national agencies in our Member States in the field of communicable diseases? That would speed up our reaction and help us on a Union basis.My third question is addressed to the Council. I hope it is a hypothetical question. If the investigations in the USA show that the anthrax outbreak came from Iraq and therefore American public opinion becomes overwhelmingly in favour of an attack on Iraq and – I imagine that George Bush would find it very hard to resist such overwhelming public opinion – what would be the Council's position? Would we encourage the EU to attack Iraq as well, or would we try to hold George Bush back? Has the Council considered this?
Mr President, what the investigations into this incident show is what can best be described as a culture of management incompetence and one of complacency. The report by the Nuclear Installations Inspectorate in February of this year into the safety records found that these records had been systematically falsified. The processing of spent fuel from 34 plants in 9 different countries was thrown into doubt and, indeed, Japan, Germany and Switzerland stopped sending material – and quite rightly so – to Sellafield.This whole sorry tale has added to the UK's reputation, as sordid as it is often inaccurate, as the 'dirty man of Europe'. I believe that all at Sellafield must accept collective responsibility for the things that have gone wrong and must act to improve them.A number of improvements have been made: the new chairman of BNFL has undertaken a fundamental review; a number of people have been dismissed. There is undoubtedly progress. However, there is a lot yet to be achieved and there is a long way for the UK to go, and for BNFL to go to re-establish its reputation.I would ally myself with the concerns of Mrs McNally, when she asked the Commissioner to look again at these matters. The fact is that the Commissioner telling us that the rules of individual Member States are more specific is simply not good enough. We need high minimum standards and, in particular, we need those standards in the light of the accession of candidate countries, many of which are more reliant on nuclear technology than existing members of the Union and have much older generating capacity.The importance of European Union action in this matter is that it will be a confidence-building measure, and what the public want are confidence-building measures. I recognise and feel deeply the concern expressed by colleagues in the Republic of Ireland and Denmark. The fact is that we need legislation to implement what is called for in the motion put forward by the three main political groups tonight: high minimum standards for the safe and reliable design, construction and operation of nuclear and nuclear-related installations, as well as for nuclear-safety management systems.My group cannot support the Green motion here tonight. We feel that it treats the matter in too gargantuan terms. It raises the perfectly legitimate question of whether nuclear reprocessing should continue at Sellafield. But one cannot conduct this debate in the terms employed by the tabloid newspapers. We support the motion put forward by the three major political groups because we believe that improvements need to be made, improvements are being made, but that those improvements will be encouraged by an EU-wide approach to this whole matter. We recognise too the great significance of this plant for employment in west Cumbria and we believe that should the future of the plant be thrown into jeopardy then the European Commission must come forward with special measures to help regenerate other employment in the area.This is a saga in which nobody, least of all Sellafield, comes out well. But it is an area where action at European-Union level really can make a difference.
Mr President, Commissioner, I am pleased to present this own-initiative report, drawn up by the Parliamentary Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism with the aim of bringing about progress in an area which I hope our work will help you to understand better.As you know, it derived from a 1995 Commission Green Paper, which called for measures to internalise the external costs incurred by environmental, safety and congestion considerations, in order to bring about a fairer and more efficient system of charging users for access to transport infrastructure. Basically, the report calls upon the Commission to intervene by harmonising the definitions of internal and external costs, harmonising or identifying charge calculation methodologies, and then, of course, leaving the implementation of these measures to subsidiarity and the decisions to be taken by the Member States.In my opinion, in essence, the report ensures that the recommendation to apply the 'polluter pays' principle is included in the wider principle of 'user pays'. This is its contribution, and it has two consequences which I wish to emphasise now. The first is that if the methodology which we hope the Commission will decide upon and we will be able to endorse enables us to produce a clearer definition of the internal and external costs and a clearer system for charging users, we will create the conditions to be able to transfer the financing of infrastructure from purely public resources and general taxation to the users as such. We can therefore now picture the enormous effort before Europe – the Europe of today and the Europe of tomorrow – in the process of constructing new infrastructure, the effort of involving private capital in this operation as well, which would not be possible if we do not succeed in identifying this situation.The next step is to consider that, where the attribution of some of these costs is meaningless, as, for example, in the case of the Italian motorways, which have already fully achieved their payback – the revenue from these charges which exist today could constitute funds to be used in cross-subsidies, in order to ensure that certain costs charged to road users serve to improve infrastructure in other modes of transport which are certainly more environmentally friendly.I would stress that this whole system, which transfers the financial burden from the State to the user, must have a safeguard, and that is the last principle, according to which those who have the most difficult circumstances because they are disabled or because they live in rural or remote areas where access is difficult, can in some way be exempted, and a series of subsidies, including State subsidies, can therefore be developed to compensate for this.Our objective in producing this report is to draw together certain fundamental principles which I have already mentioned: the 'user pays' principle, the 'polluter pays' principle and the principle of cross-subsidisation etc. together. How can we do this? The methodological suggestion given here is that a series of good practices exist now in Europe, which we have attempted to explore and put together in a seminary whose papers we will make available to anyone one who wishes to study the issue in more depth and which we have financed with the help of the Commission. Well then, these practices can now, in my opinion, be generalised and made available to everyone. This would make it possible – and I feel that the time is now ripe – to obtain operative indications for advancing European policy in this direction in practical terms.
Mr President, most people would now say that they want the European Union to play a stronger role in world affairs, but they appear sometimes to be uncertain as to the ways and means. This evening, in the splendid Carnero González report, we have part of the answer. The acquisition of an international legal personality would be a powerful instrument for the Union. First, it will raise its international profile. Second, by giving the Union more respectability, it should encourage us to act more responsibly. It will open the door for a more proactive part for the Union inside the United Nations, the IMF and the World Bank. It will consolidate our role and the functions of the Commission in the field of trade and the environment.But international legal personality cannot simply be asserted unilaterally. It must be earned if it is to win recognition under international law. What will assist us in winning this acceptance is for the Union itself to become a contracting party to the Council of Europe's Convention – a move that will complement the development of our own fundamental rights regime funded on the Charter.This report prepares those of us in the Convention to take the lead. We are grateful to the rapporteur for his sterling work.
Mr President, Commissioner, the question you are really asking in your communication is: what does the future hold for the European aviation industry? That is the key question approximately ten years on from the start of liberalisation within that sector. Liberalisation, as you point out in your communication, set a growth process in motion; new companies have sprung up, new routes have opened, new air fares have in fact been put in place, and so this has attracted a new kind of public to the aviation industry. The existing large and small national airline companies have become more profitable and have started to operate more efficiently without government funding. All these aspects demonstrate that liberalisation has stirred the market. We could say that passengers have generally benefited from liberalisation, but not all of them. For example, it is evident that the benefits in business class are only minor compared to those in other passenger categories.We now wonder how solid the basis for the European aviation industry is. In your communication, you stated that fragmentation is still far more pronounced here than it is in the United States. We have more or less the same number of airline companies, but their share of the global market is 38%, whereas ours is 27%, which is a huge difference. You also stated in your communication that the profitability of our companies is considerably less than that of our American counterparts. We also question the viability of the new companies which are appearing on the market, because how long will they last and how solid are they? One cannot help but wonder how many of these will still be operating within the European market in ten years’ time. Also, how tenable and sustainable is the growth we have witnessed within this sector over the past decade? We are faced with an overcrowded airspace, or should I say a badly managed airspace?We have congested airports to contend with and this is why, Commissioner, it is of great importance that you at long last make a proposal on the management of slot allocations for airports. I think this is a matter of life and death, especially for small companies starting out in the aviation industry. We have also asked ourselves about social development and the rights of passengers. This is why I wanted to ask you what the outcome was of the agreement recently reached on Gibraltar on this matter. Is that in any way related to aviation? These are questions which we are still left with.Important steps still need to be taken after liberalisation. Firstly, air traffic control should, of course, be Europeanised. This topic is also covered in Mr Atkins’ report and I will be tabling an oral amendment on this matter tomorrow, to replace ‘privatisation’ by ‘liberalisation’. This was agreed upon in conjunction with the large political groups. It is clear that another aspect, namely safety, should also be Europeanised. A European Aviation Safety Authority should therefore be set up as a matter of urgency. It is obvious that the Member States need to take a step back as far as these two aspects are concerned. I will now move on to the key point in your communication, namely the fact that there is no external policy for European aviation, in other words that the rights with regard to third countries have been negotiated bilaterally. This, of course, determines the entire structure of the aviation industry in Europe. Normally speaking, after a liberalisation process, companies tend to operate in tune with the market which has been liberalised. This is actually quite rare in the world of aviation. No mergers have taken place. An attempt to that effect was made by KLM and Alitalia, but this has now been abandoned, due in actual fact to a number of problems related to nationality, if I can put it that way. A merger between Swissair and SABENA is still on the cards, but we rely there on an agreement with Switzerland which we will be discussing this week and on a forthcoming referendum in Switzerland. What is happening is that, although European companies join forces with their American counterparts, they play second fiddle to the Americans. This is why I, as rapporteur, have a few questions with regard to your proposal to establish this common transatlantic air space. I am in favour of this in principle, but I do wonder whether we are not rushing into things or whether this is not too big a step, considering there is no solid base in place for the European aviation industry. A number of very complex problems need to be solved first before we can take the second step. As rapporteur, I am personally quite suspicious of America’s nationalism when it comes to transport, including aviation. Negotiations must clearly be held with a great deal of openness and reciprocity, as it is put, and the European companies must have exactly the same rights as the Americans, otherwise negotiations are bound to break down. Only then, as things currently stand in European aviation, will we be capable of competing with the Americans within an open market.An important question is: what do we do if we cannot pull it off with the Americans? What do we do then on our own? How viable is the European industry if it is confined to the European boundaries and to those bilateral agreements? What is more – and I have skated over this aspect in my report, but Mrs Lucas has drafted a report on the environment which deals with this at length – we need to acknowledge that there are limits. The environment too has its limits and this is an important, in fact, vital question which we may need to ask ourselves, not so much following on from my report but following on from Mrs Lucas’ report. Secondly, intermodality is highlighted in my report too. I think that the Commission too should be clear about this and should issue proposals to promote intermodality. Trains and planes could work together very well in a number of areas.At all events, Mr President, I would like to conclude by saying that liberalisation has been hugely important. I am well aware of this, although we are not even halfway there. In order to improve the current situation, we need to receive from the Commission proposals, concrete action plans and legal texts which we can debate within the very short term. It is also clear that the Member States have a very important responsibility and that a great deal depends on them and on how much they are prepared to put into creating real European aviation and a real European aviation industry. I think, therefore, that Parliament too, in tandem with the Commission and the Council, cannot work fast enough on this score because the world will not wait for us. As such, we need to get a move on, otherwise we will be buried under an avalanche.
Mr President, I would like to thank the Members who voted for my report. In my opinion, Europe has today taken a step forward in its approach to the world of sport. Our task is still far from complete, for sport is continually changing and Europe cannot afford not to follow these changes. I hope that the work which we have begun today, here in the European Parliament, will soon be completed.I would like to make it clear that some of the points I had proposed were not approved, such as the status of sportspersons and the sporting contract etc. I hope that Europe will soon become more mature from this point of view and take into consideration those points which were not included.
Mr President, it is of course a great tragedy that it should take acts of terrorism of the kind seen in Madrid for Europe’s leaders to pull themselves together. Despite the fact that terrorism has reared its ugly head in several Member States on previous occasions, we have perhaps naively believed for a long time that these major attacks could never happen to us. We are now realising that the fight must take place at global level, but also by means of intensified European cooperation. Therefore, it is good that many important steps were taken at the summit at the weekend, even though they are insufficient. We must create much better preconditions for the coordination of intelligence services and also, in time, create a kind of European FBI that is also operational. Where miscreants and criminals operate across borders, so must the long arm of the law.The most important work in the fight against terrorism, however, is the work on peace and development, and there is much that the EU can do in this regard. A cohesive foreign policy is an important means to this end. It is very important, therefore, that the Convention’s proposals in this field be adopted. I should like to thank the Presidency for the work it is doing in this field.
Mr President, the previous speaker, Mr van Hulten, has given an excellent explanation of the background to the refusal to grant the Committee of the Regions discharge in April, and I think that Mrs Avilés Perea also does that in her resolution; she has done a very good job.As a result of the refusal to grant discharge, two bodies carried out investigations: the European Court of Auditors and OLAF. I have to say that I was somewhat disappointed by the investigation by the Court of Auditors. An investigation that can be expressed in a couple of sentences is not what I would call ‘thorough’; it was rather too superficial an investigation for my taste. I have greater respect for the report by OLAF, which has examined the matter in greater detail.There have been a great many abuses; the great hope is that these will now disappear. In this regard, I agree with the previous speakers who said that the role of the Financial Controller is essential. It was a bad omen that, when the Financial Controller brought the abuses to light, one of the first things that the Administration of the Committee of the Regions did was to dismiss a member of his staff.I am very pleased, therefore, that this Parliament has adopted an amendment to the 2004 budget by the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party to give that Financial Controller, right now, two extra members of staff for the coming financial year. We consider the role of the Financial Controller essential in all the European institutions. It cannot be emphasised enough that this person must act completely independently – independently of the hierarchy – in order to express his or her opinion.We shall be supporting the critical tone of Mrs Avilés Perea’s resolution, because we think that she has done a good job. However, my group will not be voting in favour of granting discharge to the Committee of the Regions. We think that we are justified in this course of action in a year in which so much has been amiss.
Research and development are of crucial importance if Europe is to become a continent characterised by economic growth and sound welfare. International competition, especially from the United States, increases the need for new and intensified research efforts. In its proposal in connection with the Sixth Framework Programme, the Commission has identified several important problems and research areas which Europe needs to concentrate on. Obviously, it is important that Europe’s researchers cooperate and that research efforts are coordinated to some degree. It is also very important that we should not only make it easier for researchers to travel but also facilitate the distribution of research results.What worries us is that the framework programme involves a very considerable centralisation of research. Major resources are being invested in a small number of selected areas. Research is thus being directed in an unfortunate way because the Member States’ own research routes will be governed by the Commission’s priorities. For small countries with limited research budgets, the EU is thus in danger of becoming one of the main bodies that funds research, something which would give rise to an unfortunate degree of centralisation.As liberals, we applaud the principle of independent research. From the point of view of efficiency, independent research has shown itself to be far superior to politically directed research. In the long run, societies which provide researchers with large room for manoeuvre when it comes to choosing subjects and methods achieve better results than societies in which the politicians determine the direction to be taken by research. The principle of the independent pursuit of knowledge has, for centuries, strongly characterised research in Europe. Universities and other institutions of higher learning have an important role to play in cooperating with industry and the public sector, but their most important task must not become that of taking orders from the latter.We believe that the Sixth Framework Programme would give rise to undue centralisation of independent research. We have therefore chosen to abstain from voting on the Caudron report.
Mr President, rapporteur Bowe concluded that the conciliation procedure concerning the deliberate release into the environment of genetically modified organisms had a satisfactory outcome overall. Thewould agree with this, although naturally there is still room for improvement, for example regarding the protection of biodiversity, but these are matters to be revisited at a later date.The primary objective of the new directive is the safety of the environment and public health. It follows logically from this that although it may be acceptable to use GMOs, there must always be systematic, independent and in-depth research prior to the release, into the potential risks to the environment and to public health. What is important in this respect is that the directive introduces mandatory monitoring after the placing on the market of GMO products and a mandatory time limitation of maximum ten years for first-time consent. This will enable us to encourage research into and use of GMOs on the one hand, whilst still being able to monitor the situation. Comprehensive information promotes the consumer’s freedom of choice. The consumer must be able to have absolute certainty as to whether a particular product does or does not contain GMOs. The only way to do this is through labelling which is the very model of clarity. So we are pleased to hear that the Commission is planning to produce proposals along these lines in the very near future.Lastly, I am delighted that the Commission has pledged to bring forward proposals for supplementary liability provisions for the various types of environmental damage in all areas of the European Union, before the end of this year. It is still extremely important to keep a close eye on all the risks of damage to the environment and public health, and to restrict them using all possible means.
Mr President, the word ‘federalism’ risks staying devoid of meaning if we do not make a basic choice. Yes, we do have to draft a European constitution to avoid ending up with a simple free exchange area after enlargement. To do that, however, we really must understand subsidiarity, which remains the most important principle of federalism. I will give an example.Under the Italian constitution we have a special regime of autonomy. On the way towards a necessary European constitution is it not important to involve the regional political level in some way, especially when it represents a linguistic minority? I ask this question knowing full well that the answer is not easy, but it is nevertheless vital for the democratic future of Europe.
Mr President, firstly I want to offer my warmest congratulations to Mr Mulder and Mrs Gill for their excellent reports, and also to Commissioner Schreyer for the very constructive approach she has shown in the preparation of the budget. My special thanks, however, go to the President of the Commission, Romano Prodi, for the important work he has done so far in building the European Union and bringing nations closer to one another in a joint project that we now call enlargement to the east.The budget before us will be the first to be drafted for a Community of 25 Member States. This is a very challenging undertaking technically speaking, as the budget will apply to 15 Member States for the first four months and 25 Member States for the rest of the year. For this reason the important role of the rapporteurs in drafting this budget must be emphasised.Fortunately, we have activity-based budgeting, which is now being implemented in earnest for the first time. It will improve the transparency of the budget and give a better picture of the work that is done within the framework of the European Union. Activity-based budgeting provides a straight answer to the question of what each activity actually costs.Eastward enlargement is a challenge for everyone, and has to be taken into consideration throughout the entire budget preparation process. That starts with administration. We must continue to have respect for the individual languages of the Member States and hold multilingualism in esteem. The greatest challenge, however, concerns the Structural Funds. Enlargement to the east will be an enormous rebuilding project, the largest that Western Europe has embarked on since the Second World War. For it to succeed, the administration of the Structural Funds must be simplified and dealt with more efficiently. Only in this way can the results we are striving for be achieved.
Madam President, I too had not intended to take the floor, but this issue has now occupied our attention for three-quarters of an hour. In the meeting of the Conference of Presidents, all of the group leaders present made a very great effort to try to understand the precedents, to try to understand the complexity and to try to arrive at a reasoned and fair decision. I believe the decision that was arrived at at the Conference of Presidents reflected a consensus view, which was a collective wisdom, and you have enunciated that view here today.Everyone who has studied this dossier in great detail and who has discussed it free from polemics, but not free from their political preferences, has a view on these issues; no one made any personal accusation or imputation against you. I want to say, on behalf of my own group, that although you find yourself in an extremely difficult personal position, you have behaved with honour personally, as President of this House, from the very first moment this issue was placed before you.On 28 August last, you requested the assistance of the Spanish authorities on the issue of the competent authority to transmit this document. I believe that the delay, for which you are now being reproached in debates like this, is totally undignified and unwarranted, and that you and this Parliament find themselves becoming the victim as bystander of a process of an Executive outside this House.I intend, on behalf of my own group, notwithstanding the mission you have conferred on Madame Garaud, to whom again, on behalf of my group, I wish to express our profound sympathy, to take direct personal contact with the Spanish authorities, because we have a right to have an early and urgent answer. The delay has been unwarranted and undignified and it has cast you in a light and in a role where you do not properly belong. I defend what you have done. I hope and believe you would similarly defend any Member.If Madame Garaud is not in a position, for perfectly understandable reasons, to undertake the mission that you have conferred on her, it could be advisable to see if, in such circumstances, an alternative may be found, if only because it is important for the Presidency of this House to be able to assure Members, as I believe we were assured at a prolonged debate of the Conference of Presidents, that you have acted with concern for due process and with propriety at all times.We discussed the matter of precedents at length and the two precedents were rather interesting. One was an Italian case which came as a direct reference from a court. This is not a good precedent in this case because the Italian Constitution had changed between the earlier format of transmission and the most recent, and consequently the law itself had changed. Therefore, because the constitution was a different constitution, it is not a precedent with regard to the issue of a competent authority to transmit such a request. The second was one of three cases to lift the immunity of a Member, as it happened I think from Spain. Two of them clearly came through the transmission mechanism where there was no argument on competent authority. But the third came with the thumbprint of Government on it, unlike this request, so it is an inadequate precedent, even if it is a modest step in that direction.All this has left you in a very difficult and delicate position, Madam President. I believe the undignified delay is the primary cause of all this concern and therefore, if we have political anger, while we are entitled to feel and express that anger, we should direct it at those who have caused the delay: that is most certainly not you and it is not the office of the Presidency of the European Parliament.
Madam President, I am against this oral amendment.(With more than twelve Members standing, the oral amendment was not considered)Following the vote
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in Barcelona, the European Council decided in 2002 that EU expenditure for research and development needs to be increased to 3% of the Gross Domestic Product. This is a necessary target if we want to close the gap with the US and be the world's most competitive knowledge-based economy by 2010. Unfortunately, this 3% is currently not being achieved; it is only 1.9%. Industry must account for the lion's share of this 3%, because, according to the Council proposal, one-third should come from the government and two-thirds from industry.This is an agreeable proposal, but the European governments should, however, create the right climate for industry to be able to gain a permanent foothold in Europe and to re-invest, particularly in development and in R[amp]D. This also applies to a great extent to small and medium-size enterprises. In various Member States, initiatives have been developed in order to provide financial support to starter projects from SMEs, especially in the field of technology. In this respect, the fact that technological research, especially high-quality research, takes a very long time to establish is being overlooked. That is why there is always a need for new funding, and this is not always forthcoming in Europe. Starting is not such a problem, but secondary funding is a huge problem. We are experiencing this in the Netherlands too, with the hugely successful 'Biopartner' project. However, an investment climate requires clear and transparent legislation, backed by sufficient and well-trained researchers. Moreover, the mobility of researchers in Europe is still a major problem, because researchers are being hindered by different working conditions in the different Member States.I would therefore call on the Commission and the Member States to put their money where their mouth is and take specific measures to create a favourable business climate for research and development in Europe.
Mr President, Mrs Hautala really deserves the recognition she is receiving today. In spite of stubborn and, in certain cases, fairly uninterested and uncommitted ministers, Mrs Hautala succeeded in crafting an excellent agreement.The work on equality within the EU has taken a major step forwards. Both women and men can now call upon the law in avoiding sexual harassment. We know that it is women who all too commonly suffer harassment of this kind. Now, we are obtaining a legal definition in EC law, and the employer is being given a clear responsibility.Many European women have had their working days ruined by men who will not take no for an answer. Between 40% and 50% of professionally employed women in the EU have at some point been exposed to sexual advances.I am also particularly delighted that the right to parental leave is being strengthened, and for women as well as men. I should nonetheless have preferred clearer wording concerning people’s right to return to the jobs they had before taking parental leave.Finally, I would once again thank the Commissioner responsible for her assiduous work. I would also thank my fellow MEP, Mrs Hautala, for the characteristically Finnish refusal to give in that she has shown in the interests of European work on equality.
Mr President, this morning’s session seems to be turning into a private chat among the Dutch contingent, so we shall just continue. The Netherlands is pre-eminently a trading nation, after all.Back in September, during the debate in this Parliament on the failure of the Cancún negotiating round, I made Commissioners Lamy and Fischler aware of the support of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party and myself for restarting promptly while the momentum was still there. In this regard, multilateralism remains the best route to global free trade, and the conclusion of bilateral agreements is detrimental to smaller countries and developing countries. Indeed, these countries benefit from general standards applying worldwide.The Commission sees reform of the WTO as another priority, and I agree with Commissioner Lamy on this point, because there is room for improvement in the way in which the organisation is currently functioning, which is no longer appropriate in 2004. He must bear in mind, however, that it was the members that were to blame for the failure of the negotiations. The most important thing, therefore, is to obtain constructive support among WTO members for the continuation of the Doha Development Round. That will not be easy, however, in view of the US presidential elections this year, because the campaigns will probably be full of protectionist rhetoric.An enhanced role for the Secretariat in Geneva and for the Director-General would be a step in the right direction, in my opinion. The Director-General must be given the right of initiative in order to generate more support and increased commitment on the part of the Member States to putting the negotiations back on track; and also in order to hold the members to the agreements they have made. This enhanced mandate for the Director-General would then have to be set against democratic control by a parliamentary assembly.In Cancún, we gave this another firm push by means of a parliamentary conference. That must continue, because this democratic control really cannot be left in the hands of the NGOs. Firstly, they lack democratic legitimacy and, secondly, Cancún showed once more that these organisations are not exactly striving for the success of the negotiating round.The subject matter of the present agenda should stay the same, in my view, and the Singapore issues and market access play a key role in this. It is precisely developing countries that stand to benefit from a favourable investment climate, reduction in import levies and transparent legislation. The southern countries would profit from trade facilitation; indeed, 80% of all import levies are paid by the developing countries combined. The European Union must also provide other members with better information, however, as my colleague Mr van Velzen has already said. Finally, the  Group gives Commissioners Lamy and Fischler a clear field for promoting their strategy and the proposed package in this sphere, and for continuing on this path.
Mr President, many of us never thought we would witness in our lifetimes the fall of the Berlin Wall. That event changed the face of Europe and heralded a process of emancipation for our neighbours in central and eastern Europe which is nearing its conclusion. It is worth reminding ourselves of the 13 long years this process has taken as the siren voices of the sceptics seek to dash enlargement on the rocks.In a previous debate, I described enlargement as a process of continuous assessment, not a one-off exam. I thank Mr Prodi for presenting today the Commission's assessment of the readiness of the applicant states to join the European Union which marks those countries' completion of a major assignment in that process. They are now approaching the final examination at the Copenhagen Summit. The prospects look good although they still have some hard work to do in the months ahead if they are to make the grade.The Liberal Democrat Group has always sought to apply the Copenhagen criteria and the timetable, not to elevate one above the other. We, therefore, welcome the Commission's conclusion that the ten applicant states will be ready to join the European Union by 2004, but that monitoring of their preparations will continue. A reinforced monitoring system is necessary because the overview provided by the Commission clearly shows that there are deficiencies in the readiness of those applicant countries and we should be open about this. If we are to convince our own people of the case for enlargement, it must be clear that we are not sweeping problems under the carpet. Openness about those problems and the measures taken to tackle them will make us better able to reassure the doubters.I therefore call on the Commission to transmit to Parliament all the regular enlargement reports which it will make to Council. If we await the comprehensive monitoring report six months before enlargement, the Commission may have no alternative but to impose safeguards since the nuclear option of suspending enlargement may not be viable. I hope that the threat of those safeguards will be sufficient to ensure that they are not used.Neither should we forget, however, that it is not only our own voters who have to be convinced. There are referenda to be won in the applicant states. Critics in those countries who compare the European Union to the old Soviet Union are confusing a jacket with a straightjacket. Yet we must show those countries that they will benefit from enlargement from year one. This means a generous financial settlement which precludes them becoming net contributors in the short term. By introducing a secession clause in a new constitutional treaty, we would also assuage any fears that to join the European Union is to throw away the keys to freedom.My group is deeply worried that corruption remains widespread and that much work must be done to implement the acquis in justice and home affairs. We must be firm on the failings of the candidate countries, yet we must recognise that the report before us today is only a progress report. My own country struggled to meet the criteria 15 months before accession. Thirty years later, some might say that it is still struggling. One thing is clear, however. The monitoring of compliance with EU laws and respect for the Union's values is not a process which should end upon accession.Thewelcomes the date of 2007 along with a roadmap for Bulgaria and Romania. The steps which they need to take must be clearly outlined by the Commission in time for Copenhagen, so that they are clear on what needs to be done.The recent reforms undertaken by the Turkish Government represent a real breakthrough and, while no date can be set for Turkey's accession until the political criteria are met, we will watch with interest the implementation of these reforms. Turkey must be offered a pre-accession strategy accompanied by more financial support and a friendlier political environment. We must show the world that we are not an elite Christian club.The question of Cyprus will also have to be resolved to smooth the way for Turkey's entry. Here we look to Greece and Turkey to help broker an agreement before the Copenhagen Summit. The prospect of the whole of Cyprus joining the EU would start the Greek Presidency on a positive note which we hope would conclude, in Thessaloniki, with a summit symbolising reconciliation.In conclusion, the enlargement marathon is nearing the finish line. Despite the exertions thus far, the participants must be prepared for a sprint finish. Once they cross the line in Copenhagen, they will have little time to celebrate, the training for the next marathon begins – the marathon of meeting the acquis communautaire and achieving democratic endorsement of the enlargement process.(Applause)
Mr President, on behalf of the  Group I would like to signal our strong support for the efforts of both the European Commission and the Council to persuade our international partners of the virtues of a broad-based new round of WTO talks, covering a wide range of issues. In order that the right compromises can be made between the different and complex issues facing the international trade system today it does indeed seem essential that the talks should cover a comprehensive agenda from traditional tariff reductions to crucial issues such as the environment and labour standards, and new topics such as competition and investment.You can count on large parts of this Parliament to give you robust support when arguing against those who may wish to confine the round to no more than a narrow series of sector-specific commercial trade-offs.I also welcome the openness with which Mr Lamy has commenced his working relationship with this new Parliament, and I also welcome his support for changes to the Treaty in the forthcoming intergovernmental conference to strengthen the role of the European Parliament in the common commercial policy. It would be a benefit to the Union as a whole if the Commission and Parliament could increasingly stand together in international trade negotiations. However, if the European Parliament is to play a new and more responsible role it must be given greater access to the information governing trade issues than is presently the case. New responsibilities should be accompanied by new rights. For that reason I would like to ask the Council two specific questions.First, the Commission has already stated that it has no objections to the inclusion in the conclusions which will be adopted at Seattle of wording on the role of the European Parliament in the conduct and completion of the new WTO round. Could Mr Sasi confirm the presidency will draft such new language?Second, could Mr Sasi confirm that the presidency will come forward with new proposals to facilitate the fullest possible provision to the European Parliament of documents discussed in the 133 Committee in the Council, accompanied, if necessary, by special procedures to protect confidentiality? Since Mr Sasi has kindly agreed to come to the meeting of the European Parliament’s Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy on 12 October, I suggest he presents his formal response to both these points at that meeting. If we could move forward on those two points, I feel both the accountability and legitimacy of the European Union’s negotiating position in the Millennium Round will have been significantly strengthened.
Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to compliment the rapporteur, Mr Chichester, on his report. Theagrees with the main thrust of the recommendations in the resolution, except for considerations C and L and sections 4 and 5.Mr President, the benefits of nuclear energy are not as undisputed as these sections make them out to be. Where nuclear energy helps us achieve our CO2 objectives, it also adds to the environmental problems of nuclear waste, which is completely opposed to the objectives of the communication of the Committee before us, namely a more powerful integration of the environment into the energy policy.My second point concerns Amendment No 7 submitted by thewith regard to section 1. My group is delighted that the rapporteur has accepted this as a supplement. Energy policy falls within the principle of subsidiarity but its transnational environmental impact is very much a European concern. Since sustainable development has become a Treaty objective, it is only logical to include an energy section in the Treaty which enables an integrated approach to energy and environment.Liberalisation leads to lower energy prices in time. This will, however, not lead to higher energy consumption. After all, energy is a high cost item for companies and private people alike and this is set to remain so.A further incentive to integrate policies on energy and environment is the introduction of an eco-tax, as is already in place in the Netherlands and Sweden. The introduction of an eco-tax may lead to more energy efficiency and, as such, lower energy consumption. My group calls on the committee and Member States to introduce such a tax in a coordinated manner, thus avoiding unfair competition within the Union. Needless to say, this tax should not add any extra cost to the European citizen.
Mr President, only a year ago, the eastwards enlargement policy was considered to be a possible line of development for Europe. Today, it is undeniably a fundamental part of European policy. I hope that the same will become true of Mediterranean policy as of today, not only because the Middle East is one of the most insecure areas on our borders or because the southern side of the Mediterranean is the greatest source of migration towards Europe, but also, I am glad to say, because, as President Prodi recently stated, having already discovered America we have now discovered Asia, and the Mediterranean has resumed its key position in world trade and exchange which must be exploited on both northern and southern sides.In my opinion, if this is true the performance of the MEDA programme cannot be taken as the benchmark, although I am convinced that careful evaluation of its results would shed a different light on things, but there are three lines to be explored: firstly, increasing mutual understanding through decentralised cooperation, which can be strongly encouraged; secondly, a training programme for the ruling classes of the Mediterranean, which Europe must involve in order to guarantee itself a better future; thirdly, defining sustainable sea transport policies in the Mediterranean, which will become a central point either of danger or of major development for both northern and southern sides of the Basin.
Mr President, I also wish to emphasise that people’s opportunity to move freely to another EU country and work across frontiers is one of the major advances in European cooperation, and I believe we can all appreciate that it is only right and proper for people who obtain work in another EU country to be able to retain their social security rights. Our framework – Regulation No 1408/71 – whereby countries’ reciprocal agreements ensure that people also have these rights in practice has become more and more complex throughout the years and, what with this and general bureaucracy, it is often no simple matter at all to move from country to country. That is something we must change, and I therefore think it is right to call for more progress in the work on simplifying the regulation, as proposed by the Commission at the end of 1998.The question arises as to whether, in addition to simplifying and improving the regulation for EU citizens, we can also ensure that it will be possible for third-country nationals engaged in active employment and resident in EU countries to be covered by the regulation. Several countries, including Denmark, have opposed the Commission’s proposal by referring to the legal basis, Article 42, which of course only covers EU citizens. At the Nice Summit, Denmark fought hard against changing Article 42 and against majority voting in connection with Article 42. I understand that work has been done on possibly seeking another legal basis, for example in terms of legal cooperation. I would urge that it not all be allowed to collapse in legal wranglings and problems concerning the legal basis, for Danish business too will have an interest in a solution’s being found to this problem so that, for example, foreign experts legally resident in Denmark can be posted to another EU country for a period and retain their social security rights and so that we can have experts over to Denmark from other EU countries.
Mr President, I believe we can only be pleased that the European Union is abstaining for once and being cautious in the kind of diplomatic jihad against Israel, positions having been so biased and often unjust in the past.Mr President, I too would like to see the security barrier come down and, once some of these elements have been repainted, see it end up as souvenirs and trinkets, just like other barriers. Let it disappear then, yes, but when it has no more reason to be there – for it is not there on a whim. This barrier is a response, a response to kamikaze terrorism. Having said that, once again, even if it is justified from the point of view of defence, there are things about it that can be challenged, that is true. But nothing is final, it is not a border, it does not signify an annexation.Mr Cohn-Bendit, you like talking about the 1967 borders, but may I remind you that they were only ever cease-fire lines and they only began to be recognised when they were no longer effective. Everything out there is really provisional. Do not forget that. Of course I want the barrier to disappear, but unlike some barriers which kill, it is a barrier that saves. You have to remember the attacks that have not taken place, if I can put it that way. Think of the innocent people who would have been killed by the kamikaze attacks that these controls have thwarted. The real question about this barrier, Mr President, is this: should we stop it preventing deaths? I think not.
Mr President, Commissioner, it goes without saying that cruelty to animals must be stopped. This already forms the specific ethical basis of European agricultural production. The Commission must have adequate powers to intervene in the activities of Member States; penalties must be sufficiently severe; and executive measures to correct these matters definitely need to be intensified. I would like to thank Mr Maat, the rapporteur, for taking the exceptions into consideration. There exist such things as sparsely populated areas, islands, and long distances, and these areas too must be able to function; in this report they have been taken into consideration in a balanced and even-handed way.Animal welfare forms part of a greater whole. The regionalisation of production chains has been the topic of the day and a theme for the future, and it is against this specific background that the aid for transportation of animals for slaughter must be ended. This will further regionalisation, and the implementation and development of regional chains.
Mr President, political murder is a heinous crime in darkness: it is even more chilling in daylight.Mr Chea Vichea, trade unionist and member of the Cambodian opposition, was shot and killed on January 22, beside the road in Phnom Penh, in the middle of the day. So brazen was his killer, that passers-by mistook the bullets for firecrackers. Mr Vichea is the fifth member of the opposition Alliance of Democrats to have been murdered in 2004, and the latest victim of a year of violence. His funeral brought into the streets a crowd estimated at 30 000 strong. I know why, having met Mr Vichea last April and been deeply impressed by his commitment to democracy and good government and improving the lives of his fellow citizens.Mr Vichea was a founding member of the Sam Rainsy Party. He was a committed advocate of the rights of Cambodia's 200 000 garment workers. His killing, along with that of activists from the Funcinpec party, adds to a temper of political intimidation in Cambodia that is worsened by the failure of the caretaker government to respond to these murders. Whether the Cambodian People's Party is responsible for these killings or not, its persistent failure to apprehend and punish the killers leaves it accountable for the rising tide of fear in Cambodian politics.Hun Sen's government continues to rule Cambodia without full legal and constitutional authority. It is imperative that a negotiated settlement be reached to enable legitimate government, yet negotiations cannot take place in the shadow of political murder, which sours attempts to construct a viable coalition and threatens to provoke retaliatory violence.The European Parliament must condemn not only this killing, but also the climate of intimidation and impunity that Cambodian authorities allow to persist. Our resolution calls for the suspension of all non-humanitarian aid to Cambodia and for the European Commission to refuse to deal with Hun Sen's government. The EU should not do business with a government that fails to safeguard the lives of democratic leaders.In conclusion, we call on the Council to issue strong words of condemnation.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, without for one moment minimising the problems with BSE, I want to point out that, in the prevailing climate of panic, we must not forget all the other problems and risks, and also opportunities, which exist in our food industry. Let me give an example. If ruminant fat is guaranteed free from proteins, it is also free from dioxins, cinolons etc.At present, distrust of the European food industry, of agriculture and of our countryside and farmers is spreading like wildfire. This is very dangerous not only for employment in Europe and for the countryside, but also for our environment and our cultural heritage. But just think if we could seize this opportunity. A wise old man once said that chaos is a neighbour of God. Let us use the present chaos creatively, for today we have our electorate’s support for opening up and transforming the entire food sector.
Mr President, you will perhaps be aware of the serious allegation on the front page of today's Independent newspaper that the British Government tried to muzzle its own top scientific adviser when he warned that global warming was a more serious threat than international terrorism. This follows from the US Administration's failure earlier this year to continue policy drafting on the back of the Arctic Council's Arctic Climate Impact Assessment. This is a huge scientific report and the US response is entirely untenable.Last Friday I attended, on behalf of this Parliament, a meeting of Arctic parliamentarians. We listened in shock to the various scientific presentations and the US reaction. Can we please try to ensure that both Commission and Council take seriously their various involvements at all levels with the Arctic Council and support open dialogue and action on this important global issue. It must not be hushed up, covered up, slowed down to please the US or anyone. If self-interest serves, then perhaps we might note that the latest scientific evidence forecasts that Europe will get colder.
Madam President, I should like to begin by thanking the Belgian Presidency and the Belgian Prime Minister for the degree of cooperation with the European Parliament. While I have not checked the record, from my own memory I believe Prime Minister that you may have been here on the floor of this House more often than any of your predecessors in any previous Presidency. That is a measure of the personal commitment which you have brought to dialogue with this House and democratic issues in Europe. I salute and thank you for that.There has also been a very dramatic change in the mood of this House between now and twelve months ago. Twelve months ago we all approached the Nice event as an important and defining moment and we felt disappointed when it produced something which resulted in more complexity rather than less, was more incomprehensible to the public rather than less, and seemed to reflect more a sense of deal-making than a sense of ideals behind the European process. At the end of this Presidency a balance has been restored and we should acknowledge that. There has been an extraordinary change in mood. The mood now is more upbeat and much of the thanks should go to you, Prime Minister Verhofstadt, and your colleagues in the Presidency. One cannot of course confuse mood and substance and so we must now exploit that dynamic for the future through the Laeken Declaration and through the Convention.The Laeken Declaration is indeed a defining moment for the Union and will be a durable measure of the quality of this Belgian Presidency. The Convention method is a defining method. Indeed, so many are so pleased with it that, like all successes, it now has many fathers and we all claim our share. But so be it. It is in the nature of success that we should all wish to celebrate it.With regard to the Convention, we look forward to its inauguration in March 2002 and we take note positively of the Presidency of the Convention in the persons of Mr Giscard d’Estaing and Mr Amato and Mr Dehaene and those others who will join them. We have to ensure that this Convention, through its Bureau, works in a single and coherent way. It is a vehicle for Europe, for neither more nor less.I want to say to my good friend, Hans-Gert Poettering, that about 10 years ago the former President of thewas looking for political asylum in this House and I want to thank my colleagues in the, even before Tampere and the development of justice and home affairs, for offering asylum to that man.(Laughter)He is a very capable European and I am sure in his hands that the Convention can make progress.It is wonderful to feel, as the Prime Minister has already remarked, that there are no taboos. At least with some of the concepts we have crossed an important bridge. The willingness to contemplate a constitution for Europe, is necessary not just for reasons of simplicity but for reasons of stating and re-stating ideals, contemporary values, citizens’ rights, institutional balances, and creating the proper checks and balances. We need this and I am glad that you found the courage and a consensus to build on.September 11 was an extraordinary moment in your Presidency, a difficult challenge in terms of our common vulnerability and a recognition that non-Europe, or indeed transatlantic unilateralism, could not work. It has been a tremendous success for all the institutions, led by the Belgian Presidency and the European Commission and with the willing contribution of this House, that we seized that moment and that we have understood that our common vulnerability can only be answered by common response.All in all this is a Presidency worthy of the challenge of contemporary Europe and it is a Presidency, Mr Verhofstadt, which you and your colleagues can take great pride in. We, as your Liberal Democrat colleagues in this House, also feel a great pride in your achievement. We wish there were more people like you running states in Europe today.(Applause)
Mr President, I do not know why the Spanish Minister feels he is being accused. I value the work that is being done for Kaliningrad, but I believe that, in common with the Commission, we have reason to wonder whether we are achieving the result we desire.Sometimes, it seems as if our relationship with Russia is merely a ‘give’ relationship on our part and a ‘take’ relationship on theirs. Unfortunately, we have many examples of this. One is the northern dimension in which, as the Commissioner also pointed out in another context, we only have a plan of action, but no action plan.The problem is that we have repeated time and again that we wish to achieve results. Perhaps these summits are a reminder of the EU’s own in which the decisions are based on wanting to achieve something later. The real results, which is to say those that should be of crucial importance to the environment I live in, are not apparent, however. In this area, I would appeal to the President and the Commission: the whole of the EU needs to make an active and vigorous contribution.
Mr President, the talk is of a Danish solution for Ireland. That is perhaps the only way out, but it is a tragic solution that will lead to the country’s marginalisation and to its acquiring the status of a colony. It will be cutting itself off from influence but nonetheless complying with the decisions taken. It is muzzling itself and shooting itself in the foot. That is the fruit of the anti-European campaign run by nationalists and left-wing romantics and supported by reactionary Britons and former Danish communists who have always opposed European cooperation. Mr Bonde has voted against every scrap of European cooperation. He presents himself as the apostle of democracy and transparency but, until 10 years ago, he supported the most secretive system the world has ever seen and taught at the party schools in the East German dictatorship. Do not listen to him! Let us instead mobilise the large majority of citizens here in Europe who are happy to cooperate but who are dissatisfied with one thing or another and who cannot oversee what we are doing because the treaties are unreadable and unclear and because we too, here in Parliament, interfere in every conceivable matter, with the result that people cannot see an end to it.
Madam President, why is the gulf between the European Parliament and the European governments so wide? There is an excellent resolution on the table which refers to the many necessary reforms. Indeed, majority decision-making as a rule and reinforcement of the Commission and the European Parliament are essential in order for the enlarged Union to function. Cooperation should be more flexible and each Member State must retain a Commissioner.Unfortunately, the many sound proposals from Parliament are at odds with the willingness of the governments to extend the IGC agenda and reach compromises. If the European governments do not change their attitudes soon, a treaty will be drawn up in Nice which guarantees to cripple the Union once it has been enlarged. Over the past few years, many European government leaders have presented their own people with the view that the European Union is becoming too powerful and too bureaucratic and is taking away too much national sovereignty. They have contributed to a climate of Euroscepticism where there is no room for compromise.At the same time, the same politicians have decided in favour of a substantial enlargement, necessitating reforms which were declared taboo in the first place. As such, many European politicians are hostage to their own rhetoric. If the European government leaders are serious about new countries joining, they must display the necessary political courage and agree to far-reaching reforms. We are the representatives of the people. If the governments manage to narrow the gulf between themselves and Parliament, they will ultimately be able to narrow the gulf between themselves and their own people and, at the end of the day, this is what matters.
Mr President, Commissioner, this problem is double-edged. We should certainly not discourage maritime transport: it is en environmentally-friendly form of transport and economically vital. But we should, at the same time, control the risks involved. We should regulate traffic better, if I can put it that way, for each accident at sea not only affects those directly involved, namely the people on board the ship, but also anyone living by the sea and making a living from it. After the accident involving the Erika, we took rapid action. However, new accidents have kept the pressure on, and we therefore have no choice but to take measures. I should like to thank the Commission for the excellent cooperation, as well as the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, as a result of which the latter is able to submit to you a unanimous proposal.First of all, shipping must be monitored more closely. In this connection, we need to extend the powers of the coastal state and the port state, and restrict the right to clear transit – albeit to a minor degree. We must not forget that the Erika foundered 70 km off the Breton coast, in other words, a long way from the territorial waters.Secondly, we must introduce automatic report duty via transponders. On that score, I have developed the Commission proposal in a little more detail. I believe it is also necessary for the information which then comes in automatically, also to be exchanged between the different Member States automatically. That happens far too little at the moment. We must legislate for that. We should extend the scope of the transponder, which is 30 nautical miles at the moment, as soon as possible, and switch to what is referred to as long-range.Thirdly, the black box. That is a difficult point which has been mentioned in the report by Mr Watts, and which has indeed remained more or less unresolved. In my opinion, we as a Parliament must continue to exercise pressure on the IMO, and we should therefore adhere to our time schedule.Fourthly, the ban on departure in adverse weather conditions proposed by the Commission. Admittedly, bad weather was a major factor in past accidents, but we in the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism do not support the general measure proposed by the Commission. Sometimes, in bad weather it is safer for ships to be outside, rather than inside, the port. Each port or each ship is different. Neither should we forget that the captain is in charge of his own ship, and we should respect that. That is why we have made that recommendation for a ban on departure more detailed, or at least slightly changed it into a recommendation which must receive a reasoned reply from the captain. We request that, in bad weather, station tugs be on stand-by which, in an emergency, could be deployed immediately, so that no time would be lost when something happened. There are examples of this in France and in the Netherlands. Environmental risk should not be the only reason for action. As other MEPs have already pointed out, risks involving people, crew and passengers, inter alia, merit action. I have added a provision concerning fuelling at sea, which is also a difficult operation. It is dangerous. In April of this year, for example, there was a collision off the Belgian coast between a bunker ship which was refuelling and another ship that was being refuelled. A relatively small quantity of oil, namely 10 000 litres, ended up in the sea, as a result of which the coastal area near Middelkerke, Nieuwpoort, etc was polluted, with all the disastrous implications that this entails. Statistics have shown that the number of accidents involving bunkering operations is rising enormously and rapidly. We must therefore do something about this. One of the options is to restrict bunkering, and even ban it in bad weather. We have added a provision to that effect.Fifthly, ports of refuge. That was a problem with regard to the accident involving the Erika. The Erika searched for a port of refuge and could not find one. Earlier this year, the damaged fuel tanker, Castor, sailed around the Mediterranean Sea for six weeks because it could not find a port where it could berth. That is, of course, understandable, for a port could, in a case like that, run the risk of being polluted, and it is not certain that compensation would be provided for that damage. We must therefore set up a true system of ports of refuge and safe ports of anchorage where damage can be limited. We welcome this proposal, although we have tightened it up slightly. We must be certain that the ships which call in at our ports and sail along our coasts are insured, and therefore solvent. In other words, they must be able to pay compensation for the damage they cause. We must also ensure that there are installations there to receive, repair, etc. ships.All in all, Commissioner, I believe that this is a promising draft for a sound directive, and we must adopt it at the earliest opportunity. Since there are a number of aspects which can develop very quickly, we have added an evaluation clause. The proposal will now be presented to the Council. I hope that the Swedish Presidency will be able to deal with the matter later on this month. However, I fear that the proposal will end up with the Belgian Presidency. That being the case, the latter will need to prioritise this issue and ensure that it is completed at least by the end of the year.Despite this, there are a few matters left to deal with, even though we have approved all the Erika Directives. For example, we should take additional measures to extend the routing system, in the Baltic Sea in particular. It is necessary to develop that system and especially to invest in people, people on board ships, people on shore, people who implement the checks and people who make up the ships’ crews. To underline this aspect, we have included it in the Directive, for a piece of legislation in itself is not sufficient. The real safety work is done at sea.
Mr President, Commissioner, the rapporteur, Mr Garot, has dealt with the Commission’s proposal for pig industry funding realistically and in precise terms. The aim to balance production and marketing beforehand will be of benefit to the production chain and to everyone else as well. I would like to point out, however, that at this stage we should not be embarking on a regulated economy in the pig industry. I agree very strongly with my colleague, Mr Busk, when he says that eastward enlargement lies ahead of us and, in a situation such as this, where we will have to take a serious look at the whole agricultural policy a few years from now, it is not, in my opinion, worth embarking on a regulatory mechanism for just one sector. That would not be the wise thing to do at present.In this the south and the north are quite clearly opposed. In the south people are more in favour of co-financing. On the other hand, the pig industry in the north works on the principle that it should be very firmly undertaken on a voluntary basis, on which schemes may be created, schemes which – as Mrs Schierhuber said here just now – pig farmers could join in different parts of Europe. The Community could be providing funds in a mainly technical sense, financing technical matters in connection with start-up, and thus supporting actual start-up. The way I understand it is that voluntary funds in the future will help to ensure there is also balanced marketing in the pig industry.
Mr President, I would like to thank the Commissioner, but first and foremost I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Sturdy, for an outstanding report, many parts of which I can support. It is, of course, necessary to intervene in some respects in order to remedy the problems that do after all exist in the beef sector, but I would like to emphasise that consumers’ lack of confidence has nothing to do with whether meat is produced on an intensive or extensive basis.I would like to stress that a reintroduction of the 90-head limit will have very serious consequences for some countries in particular. It will result in more bureaucracy and it will not provide any relief whatsoever in connection with the consumption of beef, which is after all what we need just now. With regard to the buy-up scheme, I would like to say that it is not an aim in itself to buy up animals in order either to put them into cold storage or subsequently destroy them. Consequently, we have proposed that we donate the healthy tested beef to areas that need crisis help. We can do this very easily for the costs associated with the intervention buy-up.I would, then, like to draw the Chamber’s attention to the fact that the proposal to tighten up the stocking density requirement, namely by reducing the number of livestock units per hectare from 2 to 1.8, will not have the desired effect either. Nonetheless, we agree that the intervention ceiling should be abolished for the years 2001 and 2002. However, with these few but – I hope, Commissioner – clear comments, we would like to support your proposal but, at the same time, also draw attention to the fact that we should not, through the new decisions we make, contribute to maintaining the distortion of competition that currently exists between some of the Member States.
Mr President, Commissioner, the proposed directive on end-of-life vehicles before us today aims firstly to guarantee a high level of environmental protection in the Union, but also to safeguard the proper operation of the internal market in this sector.Let me briefly say that historic and vintage vehicles must, of course, be exempt from the scope of this directive. Cars are also part of our cultural heritage. I think we would all agree on that. Having said that, one of the stumbling blocks concerns Article 12, i.e. the date on which the directive will come into force. Parliament’s proposed solution of 18 months following the directive’s entry into force, for new vehicles, is not terribly realistic. The European car population amounts to several tens of millions of cars which will have to be recovered even though they were not designed for recycling. The common position was more feasible since it envisaged 2006 for vehicles already on the road. This would, furthermore, make it possible to allow firms time to make funds available to meet these additional expenses.Like my group, I shall therefore support this aspect the common position which, I feel, offers a balanced compromise between constraints upon firms and essential advances in environmental protection.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mrs Korhola has done a very good job. The Commission produced a good proposal, and it has been improved since the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy went through it. I hope that it will be improved still further following the vote in Parliament.Clearly, our present and future environmental problems must be solved at all levels. Some issues are European and some are national but, to be honest, the vast majority will be local. It is only democratic that our citizens should be able to exercise influence, and it goes without saying that they should be entitled to all the information they need in order to perform their civic duties in society. That is why we should like to see Amendments 6, 16 and 30 adopted by Parliament tomorrow. These amendments set a limit of two weeks, and in difficult cases of four weeks, within which authorities and companies are to answer questions. This corresponds to Parliament’s position in what is known as the Cashman report on public access to documents in the European Union.It is also important that Amendments 19 and 20 should go through, stating that authorities are responsible for helping the individual citizen or organisation to obtain information. Quite simply, they must be given help in asking the right questions in the right places, both orally and in writing, and in finding answers to these. That is a service which authorities should obviously be required to provide in a democratic country.
It is dreadful to derive beauty from animal suffering. Animal tests should only take place as an absolute necessity, and that is not happening in the case of cosmetics. This is why a ban on both sales and testing should be introduced. The sooner the better.It is unfortunate that compromises are required in this respect. Labelling on all products tested on animals must now become compulsory with immediate effect. It is of major importance for industry, science and the government to invest more in alternative methods, as far too little use is still being made of current knowledge due to this approach. The validation procedures must be accelerated. Forty thousand animals annually are forty thousand animals too many. The replacement, reduction and refinement of animal tests are a question of civilisation. Animals are far too beautiful to be treated so dreadfully.
Mr President, the truly frustrating thing about the fiasco we saw at the IGC in Brussels was that, Poland aside, a solid agreement was closer to being reached than is frequently appreciated. Clever brokerage will still be able to achieve a respectable deal upon the outcome of the work of Mr Giscard d'Estaing and the Convention.The fact that the IGC has failed makes the process and the outcome of the Convention more attractive. The Irish presidency should certainly press forward quickly to seek to complete the IGC. For them to be able to succeed they will need assistance and there is nobody more capable of proffering advice than the Convention itself, which should be recalled in January to consider the full package of presidency proposals that was published on 9 December.Prime Minister Berlusconi says that much has been agreed, but precisely what was agreed? That the financial system of the Union should deprive Parliament of the last word on the budget? Was it agreed in the area of the third pillar that the emergency brake clause would suppress qualified majority voting and codecision? Was qualified majority voting agreed for foreign and security policy, as the presidency proposed? In the 'passerelle' clause, will the blocking of a single parliament be able to paralyse it? Parliament has a need and a right to know the answers to these precise questions.
Madam President, I should like to request that the “no smoking” areas are respected, which was not the case at the last Strasbourg session. As an asthmatic, I had two asthma attacks in this building during the last session. I do not wish to repeat that performance. I am sure there are other people in this building who also have asthma and other lung problems, so I request that all “no smoking” areas are respected.(Loud applause)
The  Group has voted for the Ferri report because we want to see a more effective and coordinated fight against organised crime in the EU through developing EU capabilities complementary to national criminal justice systems.But we opposed paragraph 5 calling for a (European) “Public Prosecutor’s office with jurisdiction over the Member States’ territory as a whole”, implying that the European-level prosecutor would substitute for national prosecuting authorities. We support an EPP working in parallel with national authorities, but not replacing them.We accepted paragraph 11 (b) as meaning an alignment of national definitions of serious offences so that criminals cannot escape justice by exploiting loopholes, but we are clear this does not mean the harmonisation of all national justice systems.We accepted paragraph 8 since we support a sensible rationalisation of working languages for essential cross-border cooperation between professionals such as judges and prosecutors on matters like extradition warrants.Although we supported paragraph 9, we feel the proposal for sanctions showed up weaknesses at the heart of the purely intergovernmental procedures currently in force. There are no means to enforce respect for agreed judicial assistance measures, as there would be if the area fell within Community competence.
Mr President, as several people have said, this year is of course the first time that we are working with a budget designed to be activity-based, the idea being that the budget should be far better at reflecting the political priorities and that it should also be easier to see where we are investing our money. I think, however, that we are failing fully to notice the improvement this year, because, as has been seen from today’s debate, we still of course have the budget divided up into areas of expenditure and we still have to keep within the fixed limits for these areas of expenditure. This means that the budget work is still a very technical exercise in which it is easy to lose sight of the political choices. I hope that, as you, Commissioner, have suggested it will, the situation will improve in the future.It is of course important, among other things, that we see the agencies’ – the decentralised agencies’ – budgets in the context of the political priorities. It is of course true to say that we in the EU are acquiring more and more decentralised agencies, each individual one of which is to fulfil tasks with high political priorities, such as food safety or the approval of medicines. We must beware that establishing the decentralised agencies does not lead to unduly high expenditure for the EU, but we must of course also ensure that these agencies have the financial frameworks to enable the tasks in actual fact to be carried out. That is why it is important for us to have obtained the activity-based budget.I also very much agree with Mr Mulder’s demand that we acquire greater transparency and the ability on the part of Parliament to control the agencies’ budgets.I have a couple more individual points to make. I should like, where this year’s budget is concerned, to emphasise that, in connection with enlargement, we have appropriated more money to guarantees for loans. This may strengthen the European Investment Bank’s and the European Development Bank’s work on developing the banking sector in the new Member States, and I believe that, in return for very few resources, we shall obtain a very large dispersal effect and shall be able to obtain considerable economic growth, in the way we have heard about during the hearings in the Committee on Budgets on the work of the two banks.Last but not least, I hope we can find a solution to the problem of the information offices, or what are known as Info-Points and Carrefour centres, which, as from next year, have had their subsidies cut back because of problems with the Financial Regulation. I hope that we can find a solution and that the Commission will help us find a solution.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we too would like to express some concerns regarding the preliminary draft budget, some of which relate to issues which have already been raised during this debate. I would like to focus, in particular, on two issues. Firstly, security and enlargement. It has already been stated that we need to be more aggressive with these active policies, but clearly, considering that we have not increased appropriations despite the fact that the concerns linked to terrorism and enlargement – including the extension of our borders with all the problems that will bring – are known to and in the minds of all, greater awareness and greater political aggressiveness should have been demonstrated with regard to these issues and a commitment should have been made to increase the budget. Secondly, as regards information policy, I agree with Mr Perry, who pointed out that 30 cents per citizen is an absolutely ridiculous proposal if we are to achieve an effective European policy in this field.
Mr President, Mrs Roth-Behrendt expressed very many of my own thoughts. We have now obtained a first-rate enumeration of a variety of measures. But how do we make use of the sense of crisis to which this ecological disaster has led?I would compare the situation with an earlier generation’s introduction of the Plimsoll line, a marking which was introduced to prevent insurance fraud involving inferior vessels. Where is the sense of crisis which generations before us had? I consider that what we should adopt is the form of certification that Mrs Roth-Behrendt speaks about, the identification in the form of green marks on tankers which certain harbours in Europe have brought up for discussion. We must also critically examine the classification societies. I do not think that we can accept their procedures. We need independent procedures and procedures involving public control.Finally, I want to say that, when my country provides environmental aid to shipowners who wish to improve the quality of the environment, there are units within the Commission who regard this as prohibited aid to shipyards. Within the Commission, the one hand does not know what the other hand is doing. It is not an acceptable procedure that measures to improve the environment, which are in keeping with the Commission’s guidelines, cannot be taken because these are considered to constitute prohibited aid to shipyards.
Mr President, the desperate situation at Fréthun, which I have also visited, demands a response on two fronts. The rail-freight operators and dependent businesses want a response which concentrates on the immediate and long-standing need for sufficient security to keep the freight moving. They are perfectly justified. Businesses should not be the fall-guys of government failure to cope with asylum-seekers. Businesses need fences at Fréthun, but that is also crucial to stop migrants dying. That is the responsibility of the SNCF and French government. I am shocked that the Socialist Group refused to put that in the motion. I call on them, especially British Labour MEPs, to back Amendment No 2 on this point.Amendment No 6 by the Socialist Group is hopelessly weak, letting governments off the hook. Businesses adversely affected also need finance and they need immediate support and compensation from the two governments. I will also be shocked if Labour MEPs vote against that.Amendment No 1 is an  Group amendment, which calls for the strengthening of the current inadequate intervention powers of the Commission to clear obstructions to the free movement of goods. I am told the Conservatives are reluctant to support this, but I hope it is not true.The second response required in the Calais area is to address the asylum question in a humane and practical way. My group cannot support Amendment No 5 by the Socialist Group because it attributes the situation at Fréthun purely to pressure people feel to migrate from their home countries. Obviously that is the broad context, which is why the resolution in a paragraph I drafted says the long-term solution must be found in a concerted, European asylum policy. There is also stress on the need for a sensitive humanitarian approach.In the immediate future, the British and French governments must reach a practical agreement to process asylum claims on-site at the Sangatte centre, not close it – that would be counterproductive. But the Socialist Group amendment, probably deliberately, ignores the responsibility of the SNCF and the government to deal with the asylum pressures. This is unacceptable.The rail-freight operators are on the brink of collapse. Eight thousand workers could be out of a job. I urge support for the motion and for Amendments Nos 1 to 4.
Mr President, what we are discussing now may seem like a dreary, formal list, but it is in actual fact incredibly important and is a crucial prerequisite in the constant battle for increased transparency in the European institutions. Transparency is the area in which Mrs Maij-Weggen manifestly excels, and I wish to congratulate her on her work.It may be observed that Parliament takes the lead when it comes to efforts to open up our institutions. Our documents and activities are openly available to the people of Europe. We are an open institution with open meetings. I believe that we are one of the world’s most transparent parliaments, both through our conscious commitment to formal decision-making and through unconventional methods such as the ‘Open Up Europe’ initiative taken by a number of liberal MEPs or the decision to put MEPs’ financial interests on the Web in accordance with the name and shame principle. Through methods such as these, transparency can be achieved. What is happening in the European Parliament can now be followed on computers from northern Finland to the Greek islands.There is, of course, a lot more to be done, however. It is also a question of ensuring that there are clear rules so that access to documents is not dependent upon discretion or the sympathetic interpretation of an application. The register is therefore an important tool for ensuring that people know what applies and how they can appeal.The document should perhaps make clear what further increased openness it is leading to. How in fact are documents from third parties or Member States or those forming part of an official correspondence to be dealt with? There is scope for interpretation in these areas. I hope that Parliament’s employees in general will interpret all applications generously and that we shall soon have reports on how many applications are rejected.Access to documents and across-the-board transparency are prerequisites for confidence in the EU’s activities. I really do hope that the Commission and the Council will have their registers in order by 3 June and that, shortly after that, we can begin the evaluation which is prescribed by Article 255 and which is to be ready in a year and a half’s time.
We have voted against Amendment No 7 to the report on the EU’s draft general budget for 2002, tabled by Jens-Peter Bonde on behalf of the Group for a Europe of Democracies and Diversities. As it stands, the draft is of no use at all in securing a better arrangement for MEPs’ travel expenses. It is also our view that MEPs’ travel expenses are a subject to be dealt with in connection with a reform of the Statute for Members.
draftsperson of the opinion of the Committee on Fisheries. – Mr President, Commissioner, I have a genuine admiration for the report by Mrs Sudre so what follows is in no way critical of it or of her. Nonetheless, it illustrates what I believe is a much more widespread problem about the relationship between reports and opinions, particularly those of a non-legislative kind. For example, in this report only 25 words survive of the conclusions unanimously adopted by the Committee on Fisheries. The bulk of the section dealing with fisheries actually consists of an amendment to the motion for a resolution tabled in the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism.There is nothing the Committee on Fisheries would object to in the paragraph concerned. Indeed, it covers certain issues more explicitly than the opinion does. On the other hand, some significant points in the opinion do not figure in the final version of the resolution. Given the importance of fisheries to the outermost regions, I can only be saddened by this.I appreciate that differences of perspective mean that it will not always be possible to reconcile views expressed in the lead committee and other committees. My concern is rather that we do not currently have any standardised mechanism for making an attempt to do so. I am asking, therefore, whether the President of Parliament would be prepared to look at ways in which improvements could be made, for example, by consultations prior to voting or by adjusting the order in which votes are taken. Without such improvements, we risk losing the benefits of a great deal of expertise, not just to our own detriment, but also to the detriment of those we seek to serve. In the meantime, and on this particular report, I would respectfully request both the Council and the Commission to look at the conclusions that are not contained in the motion for a resolution, as well as the ones that are.
I would simply like to thank all the honourable Members for providing such a clear demonstration on the subject of Friday’s vote of “whittling away”.
Mr President, every time there is a disaster of this kind people say it must never happen again. In reality we can never stop accidents happening at sea, but it is incumbent upon us all to learn the lessons whenever an incident of this kind takes place and apply those lessons to reduce risks in future.The 'Erika' incident was serious especially for the people of Brittany most closely affected, but it was devastating for the wildlife of much of Europe. Some say that it is the worst accident that has ever befallen the bird life of this part of Europe. The Royal Society for the Protection of Birds believes that as many as 400,000 birds, perhaps mainly guillemots, may have died. The pictures many of us will have seen of oil-soaked birds being put down by veterinary officials were both distressing and tragic.We all want the highest standards for ships whatever flag they may be flying. We need to enforce the regulations and ensure that the 'polluter pays' principle is applied so that financial penalties and some incentives are used to put pressure on both ship operators and oil companies to ensure that best practice is introduced.I agree with every word the Commissioner said in her remarks, but the question is, how long will it take to ensure that measures are introduced to deal with the problem in the way she proposes? As a politician she needs to remind her officials how difficult it would be were she to have to come back to this Parliament in a year, were a similar incident, just as devastating, to take place, if some of the measures she has proposed today were simply still remaining as fine words and she had not had the chance to put them into practice. The thought of an incident of this kind occurring in the near future should concentrate her mind and the minds of her officials wonderfully.
It is clear from the debates once again that there is still considerable disagreement in the Union about the length of the transitional period, the level of the quotas and the system for granting licences.The vote on the Dary report has demonstrated once again that the European Parliament does not respect the internationally agreed trading rules.It is unacceptable that in the Dary report again a transitional period of ten years is proposed, without putting a definitive ruling first.Taking account of the internationally agreed trading rules within the WTO, the GATT Agreement and the internal market strategy of the European Union, we should be arguing in favour of introducing a tariff only system as quickly as possible. We could possibly agree provisionally on a tariff quota ruling that is WTO compliant, but on condition that a date is specified on which the tariff only system will be introduced.Belgium has always argued in favour of the immediate adaptation of the banana regime to comply with the WTO, but with a concession to the ACP countries. Preference should indeed be given to a tariff only system because this option respects the trading flows best and is most clearly WTO compliant.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. – Mr President, I would like to congratulate Mrs Prets on her report and to thank her for her cooperation in respect of the opinion from the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs.I can understand the concerns of the insurance industry. The proposal will bring considerable changes to its practices and at present it is uncertain as to how to go about implementing these changes. Understandably, industry never likes uncertainty. However, I do not understand industry's argument that the current use of gender to differentiate premiums and benefits is not discriminatory because it is based on objective factors. Even if it is the case that on average young men have more car accidents than young women, or that on average women live longer than men, this is not true of all individuals, and these individuals are disadvantaged accordingly.In any event, the existence of objective differences, whether between individuals or groups, is not of itself sufficient grounds for according them unequal treatment. There must be a sound political justification for doing so. I have to say that in the 21st century I do not believe that such a justification can be provided where the routine provision of goods and services to men and women is concerned, any more than it could be where other such socially constructed groupings were involved. If I speak with some feeling on the matter it is because, on several occasions in my own life, I have experienced the kind of discrimination that this directive is intended to prevent. I do not want to see new generations bearing the same scars.I would ask insurance companies to look to see whether the changes might not actually afford opportunities to them. I would not willingly purchase an annuity because I do not believe it would offer a financially advantageous way of arranging my affairs. Perhaps I am not the only woman who feels this way.
Mr President, the day before yesterday saw the commencement of this trial in Cairo of these 50 men accused of homosexuality. We Liberals would like to protest strongly against this trial on several grounds. We always condemn discrimination and injustices against people on the basis of homosexuality, ethnicity, gender, religion, etc.What is more, homosexuality is not illegal according to Egyptian law. Even so, these men risk harsh punishment. In addition, they have already been through a first trial, as several colleagues have already pointed out. A second trial contravenes all legal principles.We Liberals would like to remind everyone of Article 2 of the EU-Egypt Association Agreement. We refer constantly to this article on respect for human rights. Is it not time, Commissioners, to take this article seriously and find the means to make it useable, allowing us, in certain cases, to bring countries contravening Article 2 to their senses or at least to implement sanctions against them? I am counting on the Commission to protest in the strongest possible terms against this trial.
Mr President, I would also like to welcome all our new colleagues, and I hope that they will also become involved in this complex report. I would like to thank all my colleagues who have been involved in this subject and who will be involved in it in the future. Particularly everyone who took part in the working party in order to find a compromise. I would in particular like to thank Mr Papayannakis for his excellent co-operation, and I would like to thank the Commission and the Council for the abundant information they have provided and the considerable co-operation they have offered.This is perhaps the most complex subject, both from a legal and a political point of view, with a total of almost 900 amendments – if I include all the committees' amendments – which were then reduced to about 75 in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market. We have voted on these. There are once again 108 amendments before us in the plenary session now, with the necessary split votes. This will mean that we will have a long hard session in front of us this afternoon, but I think that it will be worthwhile.I would just like to briefly outline the background. I think that this report has prestige written all over it. First we had the Exxon Valdez and the Erika and then the Prestige, but the report also has political prestige written all over it, and has had since 1976. If you go faster than you are actually able to, you will not achieve anything. That is my position. So you have to try and make rules that are workable and realistic. The conflict in competence between the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy and the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market was the starting point of political sentiment in particular. I believe that if liability regimes were not even to be dealt with in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market any longer, we might as well abolish it and set up one committee, the Committee for ‘All Affairs’. It could have 626 members, and possibly even 735 after next year, and then I know for sure that we would never get out of it.Because of the conflict in competences, the subject has become controversial and heavily charged, one in which everyone wanted to stake their own political claim with a view to political profiling. That was a pity, because it has meant that up to now it has been virtually impossible to arrive at compromises and to create broader support. I ultimately decided on an approach that was considered on the basis of all the amendments submitted and that does not specifically favour industry and does not specifically favour the environment. I have tried to find a balance that will make a new piece of legislation – because that is after all what we are talking about – workable and implementable, one that will ultimately be able to develop into a piece of workable legislation that will result in a preventative approach to the environment and will ultimately protect the environment.I also think that it is important to create a level playing field, because I believe that environmental legislation is part of our economy. The first compromises I suggested were based on this. For example, I said that the legal basis should be Article 175. Every Member State is developing its own system, and based on the best examples in the market, the Commission will be issuing harmonised draft legislation on environmental protection throughout Europe in five years’ time. In this way we will get a level playing field, we will avoid environmental dumping and we will avoid a situation in which there will ultimately be 25 different legal systems which will definitely do nothing to promote the internal market nor protect the environment. I understand that there are a number of countries, including my own country, the Netherlands, that will always want to go a little bit further. That is fine, and I think that that should be allowed. On the other hand, I think that it is better that those countries that do not go as far should be brought up to a higher level, which will be ultimately better for the environment in absolute terms. If we apply Article 95, therefore, it will be easier for the European Commission, as the watchdog of the Treaty, to bring those parties who do not comply with the rules before the European Court of Justice, thus ensuring that the environment actually benefits from this legislation.In my initial proposals I opted for mitigating factors instead of exemptions, and I think that that was a good thing. I linked liability for risk with state-of-the-art defence as a mitigating factor; 100 % mitigation would mean that the judge could decide not to hold somebody liable. Unfortunately we were not able to achieve that.The scope: I mentioned sites, habitat and species protected under Community legislation, and sites protected under national legislation. I said that this should be complementary to all international conventions so as to ensure that there would be a level playing field and a comparable liability regime in that area too. Unfortunately we were not able to achieve this. I was isolated in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market. Nobody, neither on the left nor on the right, would support me.In order to ensure that we could deal with this here today, I looked for and found support in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market. That means that I had to tone down my original suggestions somewhat, but ultimately I am particularly happy with what the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market has adopted, and I will support that. I therefore also support the amendments that were submitted and that were based on my initial compromise amendments. I hope that we will have a favourable vote, and I welcome the challenge of being able to continue to play a prominent role in this difficult matter at second reading.(Applause)
Mr President, before I begin, allow me to mention the attack that took place today in Spain, specifically in Catalonia, ten kilometres from my own home. Allow me to express my rejection of this attack and also to express my respect for the victim’s party colleagues and his family, and the conviction that dialogue and democrats working together is the only hope.Going on to the subject of Chile, I would like to express the confidence, the approval and the satisfaction, on the part of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, that the resolution contains some important points, such as respect for the power of Chilean justice, for the Government, for allocating responsibility and, above all, being able to provide support from the European Union for the democratic process with real and positive agreements.I also express the support of our Group for the amendment from the Confederal Group of theon the non-interference of military powers in the process. And allow me to point out that it is important that we approve this joint resolution, now that Pinochet is in Chile, something that we were not able to do when Pinochet was in the United Kingdom. At the time the Liberals andtried, but the members of the People’s Party and thes were not in favour, in order not to affect the judicial process.We are happy that the situation has now changed.Mozambique
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs. – Mr President, it is perhaps a pity we do not seem to have the same sense of urgency over this report, giving a right of citizens to access to information, as we have over telecoms liberalisation, but I shall pass over that.It is very important to emphasise that this directive does not grant a concession. It lays down practical arrangements for the exercise of a right which belongs to the citizens. So amendments, such as Nos 1, 5 and 10 which stress the existence of this right, are very important.Another aspect of the Committee's second reading report which should be stressed is the need to make sure that the dissemination of environmental information keeps up with modern means of communication technology. That is an important aspect that we would like to persuade the Council to take on board. The stress that is put on improving the quality of the information made available so that it is comprehensible, accurate and comparable is also very valuable. There is no point in having access to information if it is too complex or too opaque to be comprehensible to the layman – it renders such access meaningless.We also very much welcome the fact that the rapporteur seeks to ensure that any restriction on the right of information should only be allowed in specific, clearly-defined and exceptional cases. Also that there should be a 'harm' test, so that the harm must outweigh the benefits of disclosure if disclosure is to be denied. All these are very important. I welcome Mrs Korhola's acceptance of Amendment No 48 and, although she does not think it is perfect, I am very glad she can accept it.
Mr President, cher Monsieur le Commissaire, the report we are in a quandary about approving contains a genuinely fundamental change to regional policy. Regions with permanent handicaps must be regarded in a new way in aid policy. I believe this fundamental revaluation to be important. There are handicaps that are ongoing. We in sparsely populated Finland are familiar with such disadvantages, and these were also noted in the important accession treaty for Finland, Sweden and Austria. Mountain regions and archipelagos may also be of relevance in this connection, however. At any event, I should like to see islands and archipelagos given special treatment.When Finland became a member of the EU, it was difficult for us to maintain important aid arrangements. For example, certain general forms of transport aid were examined extremely critically by the Commission. It is not large amounts of aid we are requesting for sparsely populated areas, the archipelago and mountain areas, but such sums may be crucial to it being possible to maintain services. An important part of the policy may also consist of countries being given opportunities to receive certain smaller sums by way of general aid and of companies that maintain services of general interest being required to ensure that such services operate.We also need rules within agricultural policy enabling small-scale agriculture in the archipelago to survive. That is incredibly important for the archipelago as a part of our world heritage and as something that we are trying to administer as well as possible. The European Convention proposes similar changes, something for which we are extremely grateful.Finally, I wish to say that the concept of territorial cohesion was really originated by the CPMR under its then chairman, Stig Östdahl. I am extremely pleased that, today as well, Parliament can contribute to new and important thinking that must be of use in enabling people to live and prosper in all parts of the EU.
Madam President, the need for a binding charter is more a political than a legal issue, but this does not detract from its significance. Fundamental rights are of secondary importance in treaties these days. If they are included at all, this is done so in a completely chaotic format. This is unacceptable, certainly if Europe professes to be a Community of values. Therefore the charter must guarantee the citizen protection against the breaches of increasingly widening supra-national legislation. The ECHR should apply as a minimum standard with specific European Union rights added to it. Needless to say, we need to do everything possible to leave national constitutions intact as much as possible but it cannot be ruled out that it will affect these constitutions. After all, the charter must be able to form the basis for new fundamental rights if so necessitated by social developments.Finally, Madam President, it is essential for the European Union to accede to the European Convention on Human Rights, for Strasbourg must become stronger, not weaker.
Mr President, I was going to say on behalf of my group that we are pleased to see that a Green Paper is forthcoming, but perhaps I am in the minority in saying that I am pleased to see that a Green Paper is forthcoming in the sense that something is actually happening. The promise of future consultation and feasibility studies is to be welcomed, but this should not be an excuse for doing nothing. In that sense I agree with my colleagues that something has to happen sooner rather than later. Process can be important, and we must get that right.I would like to make two points on behalf of my group, the first relating to competition. Competition is excellent – we agree with the internal market – in that it is a way of raising standards generally and can also be a way of raising standards in the services concerned, but not for its own sake. Perhaps it would be interesting to look at a country outside the EU – Switzerland – in terms of energy policy. Recently the Swiss had a referendum to ascertain whether they should liberalise their energy provision, presently provided by their local cantons. Swiss citizens voted against this because they were not satisfied that choice in that sense would raise standards – it might just prove confusing. That question was put to the citizens of Switzerland. We, on the other hand, are waiting for a framework to establish how we should introduce such choices across Europe.The second issue of particular importance to my group is universal services provision. This guarantees social cohesion across Europe. Taking my own constituency, for instance, and the current issue of broadband, letters are flooding into my office from constituents in rural areas who complain that broadband is available in certain cities, but not for them.Such matters have to be resolved so that we can provide the same level of service to all our citizens and therefore guarantee the social cohesion which is so important to Europe. It is ridiculous that the Convention and its working groups are currently discussing these issues. These matters call for coordination as we move forward with the development of Europe.So it is good that something is actually happening, it is good that there has been a statement, but let us get on with it.
Mr President, in the part of Helsinki where I grew up, a waste truck is doing the rounds this week. WEEE waste can also be put into it upon payment of a special fee. One kilo per person per year is collected in the district.In another part of Finland, where ‘Rosk'n Roll’ operates, waste is collected and advice dispensed in return for a special eco-fee. Europe’s fifteenth largest waste recycling company also operates here – on the principles of the market economy. Eight kilos of WEEE waste per person is collected.I think we have something to learn from this practical example, as we also have from the matter of oil waste at sea and the way in which it is treated. There must be common systems in which the principles of the market economy apply. There must be no benefit from throwing things away.I support the rapporteur’s proposal because I believe that it fulfils these requirements. I would nonetheless observe that the proposal on brominated flame retardants does not in reality take account of the environment because it may lead to our having a great need to collect waste as long as we are not able to use plastic in some other way. I do not in actual fact believe that the amendment concerning flame retardants is of any benefit to the environment.
Madam President, the proposal for a regulation contains some very crucial points for strengthening control at the external borders. The establishment of the common border agency, coordination between border authorities, with joint training involved, and the preparation of common risk analyses and of common projects for exploiting the new technological advances are all elements that will strengthen control at the external borders.During the committee reading of Mr von Boetticher’s brilliant report, we clarified two potential problem areas. Firstly, it was stated that the establishment of a common European border police neither should nor can be hurried through. The agency should thoroughly investigate whether there is any need at all for such a supranational corps and only then undertake an investigation into the implementation strategy itself. In the end, the setting up of such a corps requires a political decision to be taken for which there must be very good reasons. Secondly, it was stated during the committee reading that the agency should not have responsibility for sending home third-country citizens who are residing in the EU illegally. Otherwise, the border agency would quickly be branded as an agency for sending people home.In other words, I am more than satisfied with the report in its current form and should like to thank my esteemed fellow MEP, Mr von Boetticher, for his constructive cooperation. On behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, I am able to say that we shall support his report in the vote.
Mr President, an unbecoming process and a still worse result, is what many here in Parliament are saying for a variety of reasons. All right, perhaps that is the case, but democracy is a human creation after all, and only a human creation. One thing is quite clear, however. Those who vote against the Treaty of Nice are voting against solving the EU’s most important problem right now, namely that of enlargement. That is how simple it is, irrespective of the reasons given for voting against. Those who establish the ground rules have defined the Treaty of Nice as the turning point for enlargement of the Union, and that is the case, irrespective of the fact that others want to see different ground rules. We could therefore try to find new ground rules for the future, but ones which do not affect ourselves alone but, above all, involve the people. Moreover, I must appeal to the media to participate in this process and, it might also be said, perhaps to take their public service remit seriously for once.
Mr President, I would like to take the opportunity to thank Mrs Glase for her report, which is extremely efficient. It is a very complex report which I described in committee as cautious in parts: cautious for reasons of necessity, if we consider that employment policy concerns the Member States, and therefore does not afford the European Parliament, or, by extension, Europe, genuine, practical competence in this matter. So we are faced with a real, substantial difficulty to overcome.As Mrs Jöns has just said, what we now need to do is develop a new strategy which looks at the entire question of work and employment from a global viewpoint, and calls upon the Member States first of all to make their situation public with regard to employment and undeclared work.So far, we do not have detailed documentation for all the States; that is, we do not know the extent of the problem in all the Member States. We do not know the extent of the problem in the States which are hoping to join the European Union either.It is a complex issue: the percentage is increasing every year in line with the gross domestic product; we have a remarkably high average of 15% across the countries of the European Union. This figure should make us think.In any case, for all of us, illegal and undeclared work constitutes, by definition, an abuse of those who need to work, not least in terms of the tax burden which should ensure solidarity. This is, therefore, a crime against society, which we as legislators must address, within the limits of our direct competence in this field.However, there are specific recommendations in the report, for example specific procedures which could be implemented in order to fight the scourge of illegal or undeclared work.I tabled some amendments, which have already been accepted by the rapporteur, and I will therefore not dwell on them. I would just like to use the rest of the time available to mention an amendment which is particularly important to me and which I believe people found difficult to assess objectively: the amendment on illegal child labour, which I will summarise now.It is claimed that child labour does not exist in Europe, but that it might exist – as has been stated – in Italy and southern countries. This is not true! Child labour exists everywhere: among immigrants or third-country nationals, among all those young people who drop out of education before they reach the age of majority, who are exploited, underpaid and untrained, thereby constituting a serious problem of exploitation and undeclared work because they do not have a qualification which can be used to ensure that they are adequately paid. Lastly, the issue of illegal work also concerns children under 15 years old!So let us not pretend that this problem does not exist in Europe, because it does exist, and Parliament should speak out resolutely on this matter too, in order to confirm the social, democratic and political maturity of this House.
Mr President, Minister, we all feel a great deal of sorrow and frustration at what is happening in the Middle East. The violence and the killing must stop. Together with the United States, the EU can play an important role in the process of achieving a ceasefire, together with peace and reconciliation. Europe’s decision-makers must be able to create a broadly based confidence in the EU as a partner in the Middle East. That is not the situation at present, my friends. Up until now, a balanced approach has been demanded, able to resolve conflicts and create a climate for coexistence, not a climate of isolation or exclusion for any party.Today, more and more people, especially in this House, are talking about trade sanctions. Are trade sanctions against Israel, and thus indirectly against Palestine too, really the best way of preparing the way for peace? Is isolating Israel a fruitful path to go down if the EU is to be able to acquire a more significant role in the region? I do not think so.I also want to say that the comparison which Mr Gahrton has just made between Israel and the policy of apartheid in South Africa is appalling. Experience of previous international sanctions should give pause for reflection. Look at Cuba. Look at Iraq. Have Castro and Saddam Hussein been weakened? Hardly. Who is it who have to suffer? It is not Ariel Sharon. Instead, it is the farm workers and orchard labourers who cultivate fruit and wine.I have a few direct questions for you, Minister. I have heard that, at the last Council meeting in Luxembourg, the Swedish Foreign Minister talked in terms of the EU’s needing to prepare itself for introducing trade sanctions against Israel. Is this information correct? Which countries can conceive of trade sanctions as a method? I have also received information to suggest that the Swedish Government is preparing to introduce trade sanctions. Is the same thing happening in other countries?Finally, Minister, I want to ask what you personally think about trade sanctions and threats to isolate Israel. Is that a path which you personally believe the EU should go down? You said that all alternatives are open? What do you mean by that? Do you mean that you too are prepared to isolate Israel?
Mr President, Mr Cohn-Bendit raises a very important point because this is an issue on which decisions may well be made before our September II part-session. We know that Member States are under great pressure at present and the matter needs to be dealt with. At the same time, it was the view of the Conference of Presidents last week – and I believe it would be the view of this House – that we need to have a full debate on the current situation regarding a possible armed attack on Iraq.I would ask you, Mr President, either to take up Mr Barón Crespo's suggestion or to try to find a way of scheduling such a debate on the International Criminal Court this week without eating into the time foreseen for the debate on Iraq.(Parliament rejected the proposal)President. – Although that has been rejected, I understand from the explanations that were given earlier that there is a consensus that the issue should be dealt with. We can raise it, as suggested, in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy. It can look into the matter and we can return to this at the second September part-session.
Madam President, Commissioner, the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party is extremely concerned about the planned change to Article 23 of Hong Kong’s constitution. In conversation, journalists, politicians, various religious groups, representatives of human rights organisations and organisations such as Falun Gong all express great anxiety faced with this planned change. The strength of Hong Kong lies in its success in retaining the principle of one country, two systems. I, together with many others, fear that this change will seriously undermine that principle, something which would naturally be completely unacceptable.The fact that China is pressing for this change to take place is not reassuring. We know that China often puts pressure on Hong Kong to get it to accept legislation there that exists in China. I am afraid that the way in which Article 23 is being interpreted may lead to the disappearance of fundamental freedoms such as academic freedom, freedom of expression, freedom of organisation and religious freedom. If a group such as Falun Gong, which is banned in China, were also to be banned in Hong Kong, it would be a serious offence against the principle of one country, two systems.It is not only I who am concerned. The major demonstration at the weekend, in which thousands of Hong Kong citizens protested about the change, shows that the Hong Kong authorities have not succeeded in reassuring their own citizens, and they are not therefore reassuring ourselves, either. If the change is only a technical one, as Hong Kong maintains, the point needs to be made extremely clearly. I am afraid that that is not the way it is. I hope that the Commission will look into this issue very carefully. I also wish to appeal to the Hong Kong authorities to extend the period of referral for consideration and to be extremely vigilant where these changes are concerned.
Mr President, you are right that we must investigate transparency and accountability. Could we also investigate whether we are within the law with regard to employment? I have been continually concerned at the lack of an assistants' statute. Does this not give us an opportunity to check and confirm that we are within the employment legislation?
Your answer was interesting. I should like to refer to a debate we had yesterday about nuclear safety in Eastern Europe. I wonder: do you consider that the Commission has a legal basis for what it has said in its progress reports about, among other things, making it a condition of membership of the European Union that the nuclear power station in Bulgaria and the Slovakian one with the difficult name beginning with a “B”, Bohunice, should be shut down? Do you consider that there is a legal basis for this?
Mr President, I would ask, with reference to Article 110a, to take the floor in connection with the reading of my report, for the session services reject the possibility of adding to the report the answer I obtained from the Council during the reading by the committee. I am therefore forced to take the floor now instead.What is at issue here is Mr Tony Bunyan’s complaint to the Ombudsman, the outcome of which is a success for Parliament, the Ombudsman and Mr Bunyan. Through our work, a long conflict between the institutions about what characterises a document, as distinct from more incidental papers, was resolved. The Council had refused to give the complainant access to documentation on the grounds that the documents were ephemeral or only reflected the views of individuals.(The President cut off the speaker)
I abstained in the vote on the McCarthy report because the arguments of the rapporteur and the European Commission in favour of the patentability of computer-implemented inventions are not compelling.I personally am convinced that patents in the software sector are the weapons that companies have long dreamt of for their army of lawyers to make them capable of legal blackmail. The sole aim of this all-out investment in patents is to weaken and even to eradicate all competition.As a Liberal, I cannot accept this commercial approach based on monopolies, which aims in time, to kill off the creative spirit of young computer scientists and the innovation brought to the sector by producers and users of free software.This is why I voted in favour of all the amendments making it possible to give this report a human face; those that, for example, seek to limit the scope of patentable software.Finally, I am glad that a clear signal has been given to the European Patent Office in Munich. The European Parliament calls on this body to act transparently and responsibly and sending this signal is the least we can do for this organisation which, in violating the European Patents Convention of 1973, authorised more than 30 000 patents to be granted for computer programs.
Mr President, animal testing is carried out on a huge scale across the European Union and the world to ensure that products like chemicals and new medicines and pharmaceuticals are safe for humans to use. The public has long made clear that it wants an end to animal testing for no better purpose than to ensure the development of yet more vanity products to fill our bathroom shelves, such as all the deodorants, soaps, and hair shampoos to be found on supermarket shelves.Yet this debate has dragged on year after year with it becoming increasingly difficult for the public's wish to be turned into practice. Now we have a classic conflict between the Parliament, which has made it clear that it wants an end to animal testing, and the Council, which has done its best to ensure that no marketing ban is introduced.We have made it quite clear that an animal testing ban within the European Union alone is insufficient. It simply means that animals will be tested upon in countries outside the European Union where no proper supervision can be undertaken. A marketing ban has to be introduced, pressure has to be put on industry to ensure that new alternatives are developed. The proposals being put forward by the EPP have been particularly helpful.My group will be supporting Mrs Roth-Behrendt's call for a marketing ban to be introduced at the earliest moment. However it is likely that it will be the EPP amendment which goes through today. That leaves open the option for us all of an ambitious and yet realistic settlement, an agreement between the Parliament and the Council which can end this matter once and for all, putting pressure on the industry but not creating insoluble problems. I hope that today in the vote later in this plenary we can once and for all put an end to this issue and put an end to unnecessary animal suffering.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, European regional policy includes a differential element, which is dictated by geography and which defines the outermost regions. They are distant, isolated, fragmented and are highly dependent on the outside, and they have been experiencing inconsistent development since the entry into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam, which allowed the application of specific measures to correct their backwardness.Over recent days, the authorities of these regions have been meeting in the Canary Islands to analyse, together with the representatives of the European Commission and the three States involved, the situation of these special regions in relation to social and economic cohesion. I am sure that, as well as asking for special treatment, they will have requested some of the measures which Mr Musotto is asking for today in his report – and I congratulate him also – in which he stresses the need to differentiate between statistical convergence and real convergence, as well as the suitability of using alternative indicators to per capita income, such as unemployment, the lack of infrastructures, the lack of transport and energy, double insularity, the training of human resources and the levels of ozone in the outermost regions.In this way, I am sure that their economic and social development will not be restricted and Europe will have clearly demonstrated its solidarity with its people.
Mr President, the Economist says that we need 13.5 million immigrants by the year 2015 in order to get everything done that needs to be done in Europe. The International Herald Tribune says that we shall not succeed in obtaining that level of immigration and recruitment. On other continents, there is an awareness of how racism is growing in Europe, and it is precisely because of racism that immigrants are choosing other continents, notably America, instead of Europe.We are used to coming out against racism, because we want to combat intolerance and xenophobia. Perhaps we must also combat these things for the sake of our own future. Those who maintain that they speak for enterprise and for small businesses are speaking against their own better judgement when they do not support the present proposed directive.I support most of the amendments, but on one point I am uneasy. This is Amendment No 29 in which it is proposed that a difference of treatment on the basis of ethnic origin, which is presented as a difference of treatment on the grounds of religion, conviction or nationality, is to be deemed discrimination. I am afraid that this may be self-defeating. In Swedish law on measures to combat ethnic discrimination, it is expressly stated that, in using the term ethnic affiliation, the law means that someone belongs to a group of persons of the same race, skin colour, national or ethnic origin or confession. There is a danger that what we believe to be an extension of the definition concerned may, in actual fact, be a restriction of it. The general interpretation is, in fact, that ethnic affiliation embraces nationality. I shall not, therefore, be voting for the present amendment. It contradicts what I properly consider to be the case.
Mr President, I asked Commissioner Nielson a question to which I would like a reply. I asked him to explain his statement that the Americans are well on the way to becoming members of OPEC. I should like to hear what he has to say about this. I hope that you can give him the opportunity to give me a reply.
Mr President, we in the group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party set great store by the fact that this is not an attempt to set up a single diplomatic corps to replace the Member States’ external services. Rather, it is a question of improving the quality of the external service the Community already has and of improving cooperation between that service and the Member States’ external services. There is no doubt that there is a need for improved training of this kind in the majority of Member States, and especially in the applicant countries which will, of course, soon need a sizeable staff of well-trained people. We in theattach importance to the fact that what is at issue here is in-service training and not basic training. By that, I mean providing training to people who are already in service or on the way to joining the service. And we attach great importance to the fact that the training should be open to participants from the national external services so that there is interaction between EU and national diplomats. We have therefore tabled a number of amendments which we hope Parliament can accept. It is debatable whether there is a need for a new institution with its own building and board of management, as well as a heated dispute about where the institution is to be located. We would certainly prefer to support actual activities than just bricks and mortar, but we are able wholeheartedly to support the intention behind the proposal, and we hope that Mr Galeote Quecedo’s reflections will be given careful consideration in the Member States, the Commission and the Council.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, among the most important infrastructures in island regions are the ports. If, in addition, these regions are remote, this importance becomes strategic. We are therefore interested to see the Council proposal on the change to this decision, approved in 1996. Since then, common positions have been reached between the initial Council proposal and the European Parliament, with the classification of seaports within the trans-European transport networks according to the criteria of annual freight traffic or passenger numbers transported.Throughout this revision process, consensus solutions have been reached which, in the case of the outermost regions of the European Union, may paradoxically have strange consequences – as Mr Mastorakis has mentioned – because there is a risk that certain seaports situated in island capitals, at least in the case of the Canaries, will be included in a category other than that of tourist port because of the use of out-of-date freight figures or through considering domestic passenger traffic. Therefore, every possible precaution must be taken to prevent dysfunctions in specifying the types of project that the ports can have access to as a result of this classification, which I regard as provisional until up-to-date data are available, not forgetting, of course, other possible requirements such as connection to trans-European network land routes or the installation of a number of facilities.Nevertheless, I believe the most important thing is that these ports are included in the trans-European transport networks, with the positive consequences that will bring.I close by congratulating the rapporteur on his work.
Mr President, Commissioner, I am old enough to remember the vigorous debate on irradiated food that raged throughout Europe 15 to 20 years ago. It was very similar to the debate on GM foods we have today. It is a fact that unified scientific opinion, the WHO and the FAO say that irradiation in itself is not at all hazardous. It is therefore safe to say that recitals I and J of this report are quite misleading. The technology is presumably good for those parts of the world in which food safety quite simply means having anything at all to eat.Having said that, I would, however, also insist that there is no reason whatsoever in modern Europe for irradiating anything other than, specifically, spices. That is something there are good reasons for doing, because other methods of sterilising spices are still less appropriate from health and environmental points of view. In other cases, it is unnecessary to use this technology in a part of the world, and in a system, in which we work incredibly hard to create a high level of safety throughout the food chain. If we maintain a sufficiently high level of hygiene, apply good production practice and ensure that the refrigeration and freezing chain remains unbroken, we have no need for a technology that may – and I am not saying that this always happens – be misused to conceal a lack of hygiene or deficiencies in the refrigeration chain etc. It is a touch too difficult to monitor this. Naturally, we can say that this treatment is all right, if it is only apparent from the labelling, but I think that the risks of this technology’s being abused are too great. I do not believe it is dangerous, but I think it is extremely inappropriate for ourselves.
Mr President, the EU is faced with enormous challenges. In just a few years’ time, the Union is to be enlarged to include almost double the number of Member States. The euro is to be introduced. We are to have a security policy worthy of the name, implement administrative reforms and, hopefully, win back some of the confidence our citizens have lost in the European project.The Intergovernmental Conference should prepare the EU for these changes. It provides us with the opportunity to adapt our work to the new Member States and to the new tasks we have before us. It is a question of finding a balance between democracy and efficiency and of maintaining the historic balance between small and large countries. These are the questions which remain following the conclusion of the Treaty of Amsterdam. It is important in these discussions not to become lost in technical details and lose sight of the goal – that of making the EU more open, more efficient and more intelligible. We must all make sacrifices in order to achieve this goal.Unfortunately, governments appear to have lost sight of this goal. The Intergovernmental Conference is making only limited progress, which is not the fault of the Portuguese Presidency. Probably what will happen is what usually happens: at five minutes to midnight on the last day, a compromise will be reached with which no-one is entirely satisfied. The talk is already of the next Intergovernmental Conference where the major questions will then be solved. We have heard this before. There is starting to be a surfeit of half-baked intergovernmental conferences. Our citizens have higher expectations than that, and we do not have much time. That is why we have to take the opportunity now. The EU must be changed in the way we Liberals have demanded, that is to say in the direction of transparency, public control, more explicit accountability, a clearer distribution of competences and a common constitution. Quite simply, the EU must become more liberal. The report includes many of our amendments, and I support these with few exceptions.The challenges faced by the EU are exciting and historic. They should inspire us all to roll up our shirt sleeves. We are in a position to create something unique: democratic, competitive and peaceful cooperation throughout the continent. Instead, however, of awakening hope and enthusiasm, present developments appear, rather, to be giving rise to anxiety among governments. One might well ask what has become of political leadership and vision.
Mr President, we are currently discussing an issue which Parliament has dealt with on previous occasions. It is the case of Equatorial Guinea, one of so many African countries which have undergone a very poor transition from the colonial era, during which former colonial relationships, on the one hand, and the ambitions of other Member States of the Union to extend their area of influence, on the other, have prevented the support necessary and conducive to the establishment of a genuine democratic system.In 1999 there were general elections to the Guinean Parliament, during which the international observers noted that human rights, democratic guarantees and freedom of information had been violated. The same situation may now reoccur during the elections on 28 May, which is why, as this resolution states, we demand the appropriate intervention of the European Union, in order to guarantee that democratic elections take place on this occasion.
Madam President, the time for speaking is drawing to a close and the time to decide is at hand.From the outset of the recent period of crisis the  Group has played a central role, leading from the front and insisting on greater parliamentary accountability on the part of the Commission as executive. All the trauma we have gone through will have been worthwhile if the correct lessons are learned and applied. We believe that the Commission, now to be voted, wishes to be more open, transparent, rigorous, reformist and accountable than any of its predecessors. We believe that the message is understood that such parliamentary accountability is both collegial and individual in nature. We believe the past nine months in and through the European Parliament represent a milestone in the democratisation of the politics of the European Union.Today we vote in two parts: a political resolution and on the Commission. The political resolution supported by more than 500 deputies foresees a new accord between Parliament and the Commission for the new millenium. We have promoted and support this idea. We have insisted on emphasising greater transparency, greater access to documentation and the necessity for individual responsibility and accountability of Commissioners.We are conscious of the delicate sensitivities and prerogatives surrounding these questions, but our bottom line is clear. In demanding these reforms we believe that they strengthen both our institutions in our common European vocation. The message should go loud and clear from this House today to the capital cities of the Union in particular, that the rules of engagement have changed utterly. Never again can the diktat or presumption of capitals with regard to preserving individual Commissioners be allowed to bring an entire Commission to its knees.(Applause)Collegiality cannot be a shield to cover all behaviour, including unacceptable behaviour. Reinvigorated by the crisis we have passed through I believe there is a new energy and that there shall be a new synergy between our institutions to put the Union to work. My group – the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Group – should vote unanimously for the Commission and its President. We are pledged to making a fresh start for Europe. Let the work begin.(Applause)
Mr President, I too wish to thank the Council and the Commission for their work, and I hope that, despite the political hurdles which will no doubt appear, the negotiations in Copenhagen will nonetheless be successfully concluded.We then come, however, to the next phase, namely the people’s support of the project by means of referendums and, in that connection, I should like to address one aspect which covers half of the population, namely women. There is no doubt – and the Commissioners have also assured us of this – that the Community acquis must be implemented. However, there is a difference between theory and practice, and the reality is of course that the situation of women in the candidate countries has not been improved following the fall of the Berlin Wall. I must therefore ask whether, in the Commission’s and the Council’s work, there is anything at all that ensures that there are opportunities for strengthening the position of women in the countries concerned. If there is not, we may have a problem with the referendums; we may have a problem with female representation at the elections to Parliament; and we may have a problem with female representation in the public administration. I would therefore ask the Commission and the Council to answer the question of whether special initiatives are being taken with regard to women in the countries concerned.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, I would firstly like to stress the support of theand of my party, Convergència Democràtica de Catalunya, in order to ensure that this Presidency ends with a positive assessment, with distinction, which will include it in the category of the two previous Spanish Presidencies.Of the issues mentioned as priorities for the present Presidency, I would like to stress the following three.That the meeting of the Barcelona European Council, in March, provides concrete commitments and results which can be confirmed, in order to ensure the effective implementation of the structural reforms and liberalisation processes necessary for complying with the objectives set in the process initiated at the Lisbon Council.That the Euro-Mediterranean Council serves to promote a new stage in the process begun, also under a Spanish Presidency, in Barcelona in 1995, in order to ensure greater and better cooperation between the European Union and the third countries of the Mediterranean. We are in favour of the creation of a financial institution which allows the full and effective application of the funds agreed for the Mediterranean programmes. We must intensify the Union’s external policy, in which much of its future peace and stability is at stake.In your key role as a member of the Praesidium of the Convention, we ask that you ensure the incorporation and participation of the constitutional regions in the institutions of the European Union in the constituent text to be agreed at the Intergovernmental Conference of 2004. As the chairman of thestressed in his speech, the European Union cannot be considered complete unless it includes the full participation and integration of the Europe of the Regions. It is an issue to which, under the Spanish Presidency, which will begin with the Convention, we attach the greatest importance, as has been stressed.
Mr President, poor, small fishermen are missing out because there are too many big rich fishermen. The European Union is suffering from severe excess capacity in the fishing industry, and is solving this problem by shifting some of the production to developing countries. Instead of modernising the fisheries sector, more than EUR 1 billion of government money is being spent on doing so every year.Naturally, the governments of poor countries are delighted to receive large sums of money for allowing large-scale fishing in their waters. However, it is better to facilitate the development of the indigenous fishing industry in economically weak countries than it is to let local fishermen bob about in their boats while the enormous proceeds from the catches are credited to the accounts of big European ship-owners.The precise consequences for fish stocks and the environment are unfortunately still unknown. However, it is certain that small, local operations will not be able to compete without subsidies or state support, and will thus continue to suffer a marginal existence. The Spanish and Portuguese fleets in particular will have to be curtailed in the foreseeable future.Furthermore, there must be much stricter supervision of the way in which the developing countries spend their compensation payments. This spending must fit in with the policy of targeted poverty reduction. Local fisheries must also be involved in the spending to a much greater extent. The European fisheries policy must be brought much more closely in line with European development policy.The European Union must systematically provide technical assistance for transferring knowledge about fisheries resources to developing countries. Most importantly, the poor countries must gain the know-how, the capacity and the investment they need in order to be able to fish in their own waters in a responsible way. In the longer term we must move away from these fishing agreements, which maintain redundant European fishermen but which cause developing countries to miss out.
This is the first directive that we are debating under Article 13 and it is a very good start in our fight against all discrimination across the EU. MEPs and NGOs worked very hard to get Article 13 into the Treaty. I look forward to seeing further directives, perhaps starting with disability.Initially, I was against racism being taken separately. I would have liked to see it taken with the directive on employment and with the Action Programme. I was persuaded of the urgency, because of the current rise of racism across the EU. A number of Members have cited individual cases today.I hope the Portuguese Presidency can work very hard to push this through and make sure that we do get this racism legislation. We have to send the message that we are opposed to racism and xenophobia across the EU. I am glad for that reason that we are having the vote today.May I turn specifically to some of the amendments. I am very well aware that some European jargon excludes people. This is the reason I wanted Amendment No 48 on simple language to go in. Amendment No 43: people have talked already about the burden of proof. This is working towards a shared burden of proof. The plaintiff does have to provide facts and it has already been said that equal opportunities for men and women cover this in European legislation as well. Amendment No 51: I am delighted that charities and non-governmental organisations are going to be consulted. They are at the sharp end; they know what they are talking about.Finally, I would like to add my congratulations to Mrs Buitenweg and to Mr Howitt in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs for working so closely together to put forward an excellent report.
Mr President, there is certainly no lack of suggestions when it comes to asylum policy, suggestions which can provoke feelings either of fear or of excessive generosity and tolerance. It has, of course, been pointed out here – and I agree – that what we need instead is good sense, wisdom and, above all, a great ability to recognise the complex nature of issues. I would therefore like to ask the Commissioner whether the position of minors, in particular, is being addressed, with regard to the right to asylum and migration issues, and if so how, and whether a huge problem known as ‘Eurocracy’ – in other words the fact that waiting times for both the rejection and the acceptance of certain applications relating to what are still extremely lengthy, complex procedures are excessively long and certainly do not respect what we call human rights – is being addressed, Commissioner, and if so how.Lastly, a fundamental question. You talked about harmonising asylum laws and thus of the need for a clear legal framework and, I would go so far as to say, constitutional framework for all the European countries, for our credibility depends on this. I agree with you on this point and I hope that you will work towards this goal.
Madam President, I may be mistaken but I understood that the intention was indeed to have a resolution. But first we should refer the work programme to the relevant parliamentary committees to assess it, and should then bring forward a considered resolution with the committees responsible for the various areas adding their views. That is my understanding: there will be a resolution, but not immediately.
The Minister will be aware that the Court of Justice is already deploying the Charter quite broadly in its jurisprudence. My worry is that we face a situation where the Commission, Parliament and the Court think of the Charter as binding but the Council does not, creating a situation that can only result in political and legal confusion. Will he promise that the Council will at least keep the impact of the Charter closely under scrutiny and review its status on a continuing basis?
Mr President, I am going to raise a few points, but my main point is on smoking, again. I have raised it several times with the President before and also with the Quaestors. I have been asked to write in but I thought it would be worth raising it here as well.As an asthmatic who has grave problems when I come into contact with a cigarette at all, I am finding it extremely difficult to move around this building. It has got a little better since the last time we were here. At least in the corridors people are not smoking. But I cannot get in and out of the hemicycle without encountering cigarettes. So I cannot do my work properly. I have to cover my face with paper towels and run through to my office. I had serious asthma attacks here. I cannot carry on with the smoking in this building. I should be grateful if you could actually do something about it so that at least outside the hemicycle I and other people like me do not have to encounter smoke.In the restaurants there is supposed to be a no-smoking area. It is not observed and also the no-smoking area is through the smoking area in all the restaurants. So if I want to get food I have to queue up in the smoking area or someone has to bring it to my office for me.I would also like to see exit signs in case of emergency. When the bell went off yesterday several of us did not even know where the stairs were.
Madam President, Commissioner, you made it quite plain: we remain vulnerable. Energy is not cheap. It is a scarce commodity. We seem to have forgotten that, once upon a time, we paid as little as USD 10 for a barrel of oil. We did not ask ourselves the questions which we probably should have asked and which we are asking ourselves today. Commissioner, you also mentioned that we have seen prices rise for the past eighteen months. I wonder why the European experts and powers that be did not meet sooner to establish, when prices first started to rise, how things would develop, how this could be prevented from continuing and how we could avoid getting to the point where we are today.Commissioner, you also stated that we should respond as a united front but we now see that every country has caught “the French flu”. There is a lack of internal coherence, both in the reactions to the protests – protests which I can often understand very well – and in defending the currency, as well as a lack of external coherence in our attitude to OPEC. We have to admit that a price of USD 10 per barrel of oil is just as abnormal as one of USD 35 and you are well aware that, while a price of USD 10 may be attractive to ourselves, it is not viable globally. These are facts which we all seem to have forgotten for the time being. I believe we ought not to do this in future.You have listed the main strands in your communication which you published in the first week of September. They are sound, and cover transport policy, energy policy and environmental policy. I hope that, this evening in Luxembourg, you will manage to persuade people to adopt the same line because we need to emerge from this crisis now. We need to ensure that the next crisis is not as deep and can be held off for longer than we might anticipate. At any rate, initiatives should be tabled at European level and a minimum level of cooperation guaranteed in order to help the most needy, as you stated yourself. This is why I believe that a cut in the general tax burden, as proposed by my party in Belgium, is to be preferred to a specific tax burden on fuel. What we must not do, whatever happens, is to say to people that energy could become cheap, as this would be the wrong message altogether.IN THE CHAIR: GERHARD SCHMIDVice-President
Mr President, now that the Berlin Wall has gone, the walls around Europe must also be razed to the ground. The overprotection of our markets is at the expense of the poor, and particularly the poorest, countries. That is why my group too applauds the ‘Everything but Arms’ initiative. However, free market access will not automatically lead to a higher level of exports from the least developed countries. For that to happen, supply, above all, will need to become better, more diverse and more competitive. Also, exports should not be at the expense of the local market. The current initiative will not be able to substantially improve the economic situation in the least developed countries.Indeed, what does free access mean without the means or the expertise to raise industry to Western standards? What does this fine initiative mean if it does not apply to sugar, bananas and rice for the time being? Precisely those products which many countries can offer competitively. Europe must help the least developed countries to cope with globalisation. For that reason, all walls will need to be taken down.
I hope you will join with myself and James Elles and the other members of the all-party Kashmir Group in welcoming the renewed dialogue between India and Pakistan over the disputed territory of Kashmir.As everyone in this House knows, relations between India and Pakistan have been very difficult over the last few months, and since both countries are nuclear powers it is very important for this dialogue to be successful. I would reiterate the points made by James Elles as regards the Kashmiri people being involved in this dialogue at the earliest possible convenience and as regards ensuring that the European Union continues to offer its services as an honest broker, as agreed under the common foreign and security policy - if, that is, both India and Pakistan feel it necessary to take advantage of that offer.
Mr President, Minister, even if I have now been given explanations, I do not properly understand why this imprecise and to some extent inhumane proposal has been tabled at all. Would it not be more sensible and more appropriate for the EU’s governments and the Council of Ministers to reflect upon why people are forced to find their way illegally to Europe? I should like to ask the minister how many countries there are whose citizens are at present required by the EU’s Member States to have entry visas. Is it 10, 50 or perhaps 100 countries? According to the latest information I have, it is 127 countries. Is this figure correct? If so, do you think this is reasonable, and do you believe it is in keeping with a humane asylum policy?
Madam President, first of all, I should like to say a word of thanks to Mrs Langenhagen for the huge amount of work she has carried out on this topic. It has been a long haul, with obstacles and unruliness along the way, and the end is certainly not yet in sight. However, we are taking an important decision tomorrow, which will bring us one step closer to our goal. International developments underline the importance of having a system of our own, but at the same time, of establishing sound international cooperation, so that interoperability of the system can be achieved.I should like to mention three other points which the  Group considers important. First of all, the management structure. To theGroup, it is important that the management is transparent, and we are already glad of a major step forward by the Council, namely the proposal to set up a single administrative structure in agreement with Article 171 of the Treaty.The second point I should like to raise is the financial concern. We are still not entirely convinced that that is going in the right direction. We accept that at the beginning, public money must be invested, but industry must contribute too. There must be a balance. There is still no binding agreement with the private sector and there is still uncertainty in that area. That is why we have tabled an amendment for which I should ask your support, so that the European Union does not become a safety net. And given the high cost, we expect a contribution towards the cost of the use.Improved geographical access and reliability must be factors in favour of which industry must choose and in which they must display willingness to invest. That is exactly what makes the system first-rate.
Madam President, as I have declared it to other people already I thought it was only fair to declare it to this House that I will be abstaining because of pecuniary interests.
Mr President, Commissioner, Prime Minister, the Swedish presidency also deserves praise from those of your opponents in Sweden who are usually niggardly with their compliments. If it is now permissible to say so, I have often felt both joy and pride during these last six months.Nonetheless, I have a substantial objection regarding the decision in favour of transporter’s liability, with large fines for those who do not comply with the EU’s rules. In practice, this means that the responsibility of local authorities for those who come to the European Union seeking asylum is to be taken over by airline employees. That is unacceptable.Prime Minister, you talked in January here in Parliament about a generous attitude on the part of the EU and about ambitions for a humane refugee policy that go beyond the requirements of the Geneva Convention. Transporter’s liability as conceived by the EU is neither humane nor generous. Quite the contrary. To put it in the terms that you yourself used, we in the EU, which is a wealthy part of a global community, ought in actual fact to be able to afford to be both humane and generous.You have had the foresight, Prime Minister, to give Raoul Wallenberg the place he deserves in history. May we never betray his memory.
Mr President, if Hamas can continue to obstruct the Roadmap with violence, there will never be any peace. The terror organisation rejects the two-State concept and wants to turn Israel into an Islamic state. The spiral of violence will never stop if Israel continues to be provoked by the attacks. The unlawful killing of leaders is, of course, an empty exercise if these are simply replaced. An international military force must be set up as soon as possible, preferably after a file agreement, but if the latter does not materialise, we will have to make do without one. Hamas should then be eliminated by an international military force, if possible in conjunction with NATO, so involving both European and Americans. At the same time, all Hamas’s financial lines need to be severed. Israel and the Palestinians are thoroughly weary of the violence and misery. Finally, under international pressure, a solution is gradually manifesting itself. This is why the road must be blocked to anyone who is intent on more bloodbaths and no peace. Their Roadmap is one to hell.(Applause)
Mr President, it has been a great privilege to serve in a Parliament that has made such great progress in delivering for Europe the constitutional settlement that it needs. Parliament has become now an assured player in the constitutive process and we have assisted Europe to answer definitively the old question about whether the Union could widen and deepen at the same time. The answer is certainly 'yes'.We expect the European Council now to show the political will to bring the IGC to a quick and successful conclusion and to draft the durable, efficient and effective system of democratic government that we need to strengthen the Union and its place in world affairs. However, it is vital that Parliament, which has played such a crucial part in the IGC so far, does not fade at the final phase.President Cox and our representatives, Mr Brok and Mr Hänsch, must carry on playing a full part in the negotiations and resist any weakening of Parliament's powers of codecision and assent. There are some worrying signs in this respect and Commissioner Vitorino is quite right to warn us. Why, for example, is the Irish presidency suddenly seeking in its latest proposals to remove Parliament's power of codecision with respect to the Structural Funds? Perhaps Minister Roche could explain. If the Council wishes to encumber itself with unanimity upon financial questions, that is its own problem, but it cannot be permitted to evade parliamentary accountability.I wish to support the committee's request that, should there be a crisis at the IGC, the President should call a special meeting of the Conference of Presidents. Despite our dispersal across 25 electoral campaigns, we would be able to reassemble quickly to reinforce the President's negotiating position. Please remember that a negative assessment by Parliament on the final conclusions of the IGC would certainly scupper referendum campaigns wherever they spring up.
Thank you for that very full reply, Mr President-in-Office. Since the budget will become European Union operational on 1 January, will the budget for the Satellite Centre be part of the European security and defence budget, which the Council will put forward and which Parliament can debate and amend, as necessary? Will it be budgetised within the EU's normal financial procedures?
Madam President, Commissioner Nielson, it was naturally with great consternation that we heard the appalling news of the earthquake in Bam. Right in the middle of the Christmas holidays, the TV screens were filled with horrific pictures of dead and injured people and of thousands of people desperately searching for their relatives in a city in ruins. On behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, I wish to express our condolences to, and deepest sympathy with, the Iranian people at this difficult time. Naturally, the EU should continue its work with the Iranian authorities to help those affected obtain care, roofs over their heads and other necessities. We should also help with the reconstruction of the beautiful historic city.Our concern for, and solidarity with, the Iranian people also extends to their access to democracy and human rights. The Group of the Europe Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party is very concerned about these areas. There is still a lot to be done, because the Iranian regime is anything but democratic. Serious attacks on women, minorities, opposition members and dissidents are unfortunately part of everyday life.We are extremely concerned about the latest development and the Council of Guardians’ involvement in the forthcoming election. By not accepting thousands of candidates throughout the country – more than half of those who have put their names forward – Iran’s Council of Guardians is again showing its unwillingness to reform the Iranian system of government. Classifying the rejects as a bunch of criminals in view of the fact that they have had contacts with, for example, a number of groups disliked by the Council of Guardians rings hollow. On that logic, a quarter of the legislators already sitting would be criminals.If Iran wants ever to be counted among the democratic states, it must accept that political legitimacy is obtained from the people in free elections, not through the ayatollahs’ capricious interpretation of the will of God.Just like everyone else, the Iranian people wants democracy and human rights. We in the  Group would call upon the Iranian leaders not to interfere in the election but to allow the candidates to stand so that the election is as fair and open as possible. In that connection, I want, like my fellow MEPs, to call upon the Commission to strengthen and develop the human rights dialogue with Iran. It must be something more than just polite chit-chat. If it is to be meaningful, it must be clear, persistent and consistent and also be evaluated on a regular basis. I hope that you, Commissioner Nielson, together with Commissioner Patten and Mr Solana, will be able to act in such a way as to inject new life into these discussions, partly in the light of the work on getting Iran to ratify and implement the Non-Proliferation Agreement.
Mr President, slowly and all too belatedly, a common European security policy is in the process of taking shape, one which, though it leaves a bad taste in the mouth to say so, is, at it were, being built on the ruins of Kosovo. The EU did not manage to stop the catastrophe in the Balkans in time, and we shall forever be accountable to our children for this failure.As Liberals, we consider it absolutely crucial for the EU to be able in future to intervene with personnel and resources in countries in its immediate vicinity, to be able to engage in civil crisis management, humanitarian efforts and peace-keeping exercises based on European values and human rights. The EU must adopt a credible and independent policy in this area, but it is important to retain the commitment of the United States and the transatlantic link. NATO is at present the most important organisation for peace and security in Europe.The EU’s Member States must nonetheless soon come to some definite decisions about the common security policy. There are three main questions which must be answered at Feira and which I want to submit to the Council. What is the distribution of labour between the EU and NATO to look like? We must develop complementary, and not duplicate, structures. How will it be possible to guarantee the influence of the non-aligned States upon expanding security policy? Thirdly, a question in connection with which there are many good proposals in Mrs Lalumière’s excellent report: how will it be possible for the European Parliament and the national parliaments to be guaranteed influence upon, and participation in, the decisions so that the latter are made openly and democratically in the interests of our European citizens?
Schengen cooperation has enabled people to travel more freely in the Member States without having to show their passports at the internal borders. Obviously, such a reform requires more effective patrolling of the shared external borders. In that context, it is of the utmost importance that present and future Member States cooperate closely in order to guarantee border controls of the same standard along the whole of the external border, especially through training and joint guidelines.We are, however, doubtful about the idea of an EU-financed Corps of Border Guards. The national police forces’ monopoly on crime fighting and border patrols within the territories of the Member States is fundamental and should be retained. Police from other countries should not have the power to act in other Member States except under very special circumstances, as is also stated in the Schengen Convention. As far as possible, these rules should also apply to border controls.Individual Member States’ provisions and traditions when it comes to police work, especially procedures relating to ID checks and arrests, differ from one another in many respects. With a joint Corps of Border Guards, there might be a danger of these provisions’ not being fully respected. Financial aid for the border authorities of relevant Member States should instead make it possible to meet the increased need for personnel able to ensure effective patrols of the EU’s external border.
Mr President, we can only accept what has happened here, albeit through sleight of hand. That too is a democratic right enjoyed by parliamentarians here. At the same time I should like to support emphatically what Mr Poettering and Mrs Maes have just said. We cannot continue making ourselves ridiculous as a Parliament by spending funds in a way that is patently not above board. We do not wish to do this. We cannot collaborate in this. This item must be put on the agenda as soon as possible and as spokesman of the liberal group I should also like to warmly support what Mr Poettering has said. We must discuss this matter again as soon as possible and then adopt a motion.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the expectations of the Belgian Presidency are rightly high, and with regard to the enforcement of respect for human rights the Belgian Presidency can certainly play a notable role. The same applies to the determining of a common EU position on the occasion of the extraordinary session on children’s rights at the United Nations.It would be generally appreciated if the Belgian Presidency were to succeed in getting the European Union to speak with one voice. It can build on the efforts already made by the Swedish Presidency to decide on a common strategy.As far as content is concerned there should be especial emphasis on the fact that as regards free access to education for all children and guaranteed health care provision, binding agreements should be made.The European Parliament should pay extra attention to the situation of children in the candidate-Member States, specifically Bulgaria and Romania. For that matter it could be decisive if the European Parliament were to take the initiative of inserting the dimension of the rights of the child into the rights of human beings in general. In addition I should like to urge the EU in bilateral exchanges between European Member States and third countries to focus attention systematically on the situation of children in the third countries. This approach will undoubtedly bear fruit if pursued consistently.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mr Böge’s report on measures to prevent TSE diseases is based on the proposals of the European Parliament’s temporary BSE Committee. Mr Böge was responsible for some invaluable work on this committee, and it is a relief to see that the job of monitoring the work of the BSE Committee in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has fallen to him: he is the one with the experience.I would have liked my speech to be part of a discussion that would have also treated the second part of the Commission’s proposal. I do not think it appropriate to have to conduct in part the same discussion when Mrs Roth-Behrendt’s report from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy is featured in the plenary session.In the previous speech Mrs Schierhuber said that scrapies is an insidious disease. It is indeed. For me as a Finn, and a member who has been active in matters concerning agriculture and the health and transportation of animals, it is most important that those EU states where TSEs do not occur at all will in the future too be guaranteed the right to inspect as fully as is necessary the transportation of live animals. I wish to stress how important it is for us to remain free of disease. The possibility, if necessary, of having additional inspections of animals in these areas is not a question of artificial protectionism or the restriction of freedom of movement, as there really is justification for it. The inspections must be seen as being fair and cost-effective action to promote the wellbeing of animals and prevent increased expenditure for the EU. On behalf of the European Liberal Democrats, we can support the Commission’s proposal on Mr Böge’s report, but in the forthcoming debate on Mrs Roth-Behrendt’s report we must look again at the position of those countries where TSEs do not occur.
Mr President, firstly I want to make it absolutely clear that I have every sympathy with what our rapporteur wishes to achieve in taking forward this proposal. As we have often noted before, motor vehicle accidents unfortunately touch the lives of far too many of our citizens as mobility across Europe grows. The Fourth Directive made great strides in dealing with these problems. However, I want to concentrate on the fact that the proposal 'requires' Member States to implement in their national law the provisions relating to an improved compensation procedure.In essence, we have created a preferential system for European motor accident claims and therefore, logically, it makes sense to give those who experience an accident in a purely national context the same advantages. Logically, yes, but does this way forward respect subsidiarity? I am afraid not and this is an important point. I have therefore retabled an amendment to make this merely a recommendation to Member States.The point is that the issues raised here are a matter for national private civil law. It would involve substantial changes in tort law in England and Wales, for example. We would be putting motor vehicle accident victims in a class apart. What about the victims of medical negligence, industrial injury or any other type of claim against insurers?At present our committee is looking carefully at the harmonisation of civil law. In that respect we have been rightly critical of a piecemeal approach, improperly researched. I merely wish to make the point today that this proposal does, and must, involve a much bigger debate with tremendous implications for our respective systems of civil law. It deserves proper and transparent treatment.
Mr President, Commissioner, is what we have ideal? I do not think so. However, in the current circumstances, this is the best we can commit to paper, in my view. It is always easy to draft a series of standards just for the European Union, making them so strict in the process that while we may be happy with them, they may make it impossible for the average company to operate. We had the choice. We held a debate on whether to opt for an international, global or European solution. Given the present circumstances, we made a sensible choice. Moreover, it is on the strength of what we said that this strict standard was copied internationally. If all Member States have accepted this standard within the ICAO, it seems necessary to me that we, as a Community institution, ensure that this standard becomes law in the Union. I, for one, support this principle, and I think that the rapporteurs, both those of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism and those of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy have done sterling work. As I belong to both these committees, I do not feel the ambivalence which some fellow MEPs do feel. I feel happy on both sides. This is also because the directive offers the necessary flexibility, since a system has been provided for which allows for an individual approach tailored to each airport, so that measures can be selected within a European framework. This, at least, guarantees a certain level of equality in the treatment of people who suffer from noise pollution. In the final analysis, this is the whole object of the exercise: to ensure that people are affected as little as possible and to reconcile – at least up to a certain degree – two aspects which are, in fact, irreconcilable.Although the review after five years will involve a tightening up of legislation, there is, in my opinion, no need to establish a limit at this stage. This would be very unwise, in my view, and it could, in fact, undermine the entire proposal, which would be a very bad development, for we need to move forward quickly. Parliament must, therefore, approve this proposal, so that there is a legislative document by 1 April, upon which we can withdraw the hushkits directive.For this we must take another look at Article 5(1), and we are in agreement on this. This is what we are planning to do, and I should like to ask the Commissioner whether she could not ensure that a uniform, Community method of measurement be established for this kind of noise, for that is still not available. In my view, you should draft a bill on how noise is measured, so that we can establish objectively how measurements are to be carried out, applicable to every airport uniformly. This initiative would also benefit the joint discussion on this issue.
Mr President, Commissioner Byrne, the issue under discussion is the directive on the use of animal by-products. My view on this matter is, on the one hand, that of the producers and, on the other, that of a country with small volumes and long distances. Initially I want to say that Mrs Paulsen has done a thorough and good job. I would particularly like to thank her for also having taken into account the problems of less densely populated areas, which I represent, in Amendment No 69, in which local disposal is permitted in exceptional circumstances.My problem in relation to the proposal is why the precautions are identical for the entire area of the EU if the risks in some areas are non-existent. This will cause these areas unnecessary costs. Already now, for example, costs are greater for producers in the northern area due to natural conditions.I propose that instead of only following principles, we should combine them with common sense. In my country’s only animal waste plant different categories of waste can still be separated from each other, but separating waste from different species of animal seems extremely difficult as we are looking at such small volumes. Therefore, the goal of stopping cannibalism, good in itself, should be taken as a guideline and a common sense solution should be sought. After all, natural cannibalism does exist as a phenomenon in the animal kingdom. How will these kinds of animal be treated in the future? Directives do not prevent natural cannibalism in animals. Although we are now accepting Parliament’s opinion on the directive proposal, we still need to think about these things. Here I am not defending intensive farming but I would like to see the different conditions in different areas better taken into account.
Mr President, how much longer can we continue our cooperation with Angola? Human rights are being violated consistently and have been for a long period of time, not only by UNITA, but also by the government itself.The legal proceedings against the journalists fly in the face of every legal principle. The Angolan Government must immediately authorise a substantial UN presence which can mediate and can report on human rights. Additionally, European observers will need to be admitted to the trials against the journalists.Europe, as a major donor, has so far remained too passive with regard to Angola. If the Angolan Government continues to refuse to cooperate, measures will need to be taken. Without national reconciliation, reconciliation with Europe is not possible. This being the case, Angola will unfortunately remain a very rough diamond.
Mr President, thank you for the statements by the Council and the Commission, and also sincere congratulations and thanks to the Irish people, who removed a great obstacle to enlargement last Saturday. I am pleased that both President Prodi and Commissioner Verheugen concluded their inspired interventions by speaking of information based on the latest Eurobarometer surveys. Only one in five Europeans feels ‘well’ or ‘very well’ informed. This does not make pleasant reading. Nor does it come as much of a surprise, because we have been aware of the problem for many years. I have said it before in this House, and I will gladly say it again: EU information and communications policy is in need of improvement. We must be prepared – as Mr Poettering mentioned – to find the necessary means. Information forms the basis of understanding and thus of the popular grass-roots support that the EU needs.The enlargement negotiations have now passed the point of no return and there must be no new demands made. Admittedly, there is need for a radical reform of agricultural policy, but let us first put all the arrangements in place. I am pleased with the results from the meeting of the Foreign Ministers in Luxembourg over the last couple of days, and it is particularly good news that agreement has been reached on the fact that none of the new applicant countries can under any circumstances start their membership of the EU as net contributors. Anything else would have been unreasonable. I am confident that the Council, headed by the Danish Presidency, will be able to accomplish this great historic task in Copenhagen in December.
Mr President, firstly I would like to congratulate Mr Whitehead, who has done an excellent job. I would also like to emphasise the unanimity in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy.We know that food crises within the EU have meant that people are worried about what they are eating. At the same time this has led to a focus on food and agriculture policy. Now we have to quickly get this new system up and running – this is incredibly important. If we have open borders, which we are to have within the Union, and a free flow of goods, it is naturally important that food can also flow freely. However, this must not of course mean that illnesses and disease also flow freely. Naturally, a common system must not mean that regionally produced food is not permitted.If we look at the entire chain of measures, we can see that we will need scientific advice, risk assessment, risk management and control, including control of the control bodies in the Member States. Possibly in the future it will also be necessary to introduce sanctions. This new authority will not be able to achieve all this but it will, above all, provide new, increased strength at the beginning of the chain in terms of scientific advice and risk assessment. We already have the Food and Veterinary Office in Dublin, which plays an important role in terms of risk management and control. It is now necessary for cooperation between these two authorities to be developed. In the long run I do not believe that the European Union will escape, we must have a sanction system at EU level. However, this can only be addressed by the Commission. It is important that we continue the work such that it becomes even more efficient.This is an incredibly important step towards obtaining safer food, which we must take quickly. However, once this step is taken, the issue must not be forgotten. Instead we must develop it further and improve the system even more in the future.
I barely have the courage to say this, but we agreed in 2000 to be the world's most competitive, knowledge-based economy by 2010. After so many debates and so little progress, it seems to have turned into a bad joke. This report by the Council demonstrates once again that we need to cut back on the administrative burden for industry. Nobody will have a problem agreeing with this on paper, but do we really realise what this involves in practice? In the Netherlands, the Finance Minister, Gerrit Jan Zalm, set up a website entitled, www.administratievelasten.nl, which enables businesses to specify on there exactly what is hindering them in their business activities. I call on you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to do the same in the European Union. We must give victims the chance to speak out. Only if we have a serious overview of administrative burdens, can we set to work. Hence, www.stopeuropeanoverregulation.eu!I should like to finish off by saying, Mr President, that from your previous visit to this Parliament, I gather that you like a joke, and I therefore assume that your promises to the Ukraine about EU membership are an expression of your original sense of humour. Surely we should first make a success of the current enlargement, and only then can we think about making new promises.
Mr President, the Commission's proposal for a ban on the testing of cosmetics on animals – but only within the European Union – is totally inadequate. I agree entirely with the rapporteur. It will allow us to pretend that we are doing something to prevent animal cruelty, but while maintaining the same testing requirements not one fewer animal would suffer. By contrast, the rapporteur and the Committee, in calling for a sales and marketing ban, are maintaining the previous signal and the moral guidance about the relationship between humans and animals: that we do not accept that cruelty should be practised on animals for no better purpose than to develop products which are essentially frivolous and designed to flatter our vanity.The Committee has addressed some spurious issues put up by the industry, such as that of the possible health benefits from new products, which they said could be reclassified as pharmaceuticals. Our emphasis is on saying that the industry should spend a little less on marketing and a lot more on developing alternative testing methods. Despite the vociferous objections of the industry, with 8 000 products already on the market, with the shop shelves heaving with deodorants and shampoos, make-up and hair gels etc., it hardly seems likely that a great many people are going to lose out if a marketing ban is introduced.At the heart of this debate lies the problem of the World Trade Organisation. The truth is we do not know whether possible objections can be sustained. If they can, then change is needed. Whether it be this issue or the environment or the application of the precautionary principle, we must have the democratic freedom to be able to insist on some minimum standards acceptable to the majority of our citizens. It is totally unacceptable that those who seek to bring about improvements in animal welfare should be told by the Commission to put up the white flag and run away from the battlefield even before we know whether the enemy is armed. That would not indicate wise judgment, but abject cowardice demonstrating a total want of real leadership.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. – Mr President, Commissioner, colleagues, I would like to congratulate Mrs Smet on her report and thank the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities for adopting so many of the conclusions produced by the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. Three things are clear: one, women's wages are on average lower than men's across all occupations; two, women are predominantly employed in areas where the work has traditionally been regarded as of less value; three, women comprise a significantly higher proportion of part-time workers than men. The problem is therefore, clearly a deeply rooted one and cannot be solved without concerted action by all parties. This must include the introduction of job evaluation schemes based on objective, gender-neutral criteria, so that the current undervaluing of women's skills is brought to an end. However, we need also, as Mrs Smet has said, a much wider range of initiatives designed to tackle the structural disadvantages suffered by women on the labour market.The Committee on Employment and Social Affairs is appreciative of the extent to which the Commission is already addressing the issue through its proposals for the employment guidelines in 2002. The emphasis on gender mainstreaming and the strengthening of guideline 17 are particularly welcome. We also look forward to the proposals the Commission may have for a revision and updating of the 1975 equal pay directive. In the meantime, we call on both the Member States and the social partners to involve themselves actively in developing measures of the kind urgently needed to eliminate the gender pay gap.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have taken the floor to explain the reasons why I am going to vote against the motion and my concern over two issues, which were included in the resolution at the request of some Members, who, I feel, are trying to exploit the credibility of the European Parliament in order to further their own interests, which conflict with the general interests of the Community as a whole and Italy in particular. I refer, Mr President, to point 38 and points 41 and 42 of the Haarder report. Point 38, which was amended for the worse by Amendment No 22, cited again today in the Chamber, imposes on Italy – and who knows why Italy should be singled out – in order to guarantee the impartiality of judges, not the separation of judicial and political authorities, as advocated by Montesquieu, but the separation, within the judiciary, of the careers of judges responsible for giving rulings and investigating magistrates. The consequence of this absurd step is that, as is the case in Italy, anyone who is part of the judiciary as an investigating magistrate will become dependent upon the decision-making authorities, with the genuine risk that it will not be possible to conduct inquiries into corruption and the abuse of political power without fear of political pressure.With reference to points 41 and 42, I appreciate the fact that no citizen, not even a male descendent of a former ruler, can be deprived of the freedom to enter the country of which he is a national, but I do not understand why this only applies to Italy and Austria: there are other Community States which have rulers and sons of rulers living abroad. In particular, with regard to Italy, to lay down a period of not more than six months within which to apply the sanctions would be against the Italian Constitution, which, in fact, provides for the adoption of a constitutional resolution.
Madam President, I will have the opportunity later to speak on behalf of my Group.I will allude to a number of my Group's concerns and criticisms about this project, but in substance, taking the totality of the work that has been done, the significant progress that has been made, and the prospect that in my view we are unlikely through a delay to significantly enhance the document, I would commend to the House that we should vote to proceed with our discussion and the adoption or rejection of the document, because that choice is there, and we have to hear the debate on it. At any rate, now is the moment to seize our opportunity to try to draw this prolonged matter to a close, to move on, and to build on our interinstitutional relations in a positive way.(Parliament rejected the request to postpone the vote)President. – As requested, each group will now have two minutes to explain its position briefly.
The members of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party in the European Parliament voted neither in favour of, nor against, the first part of Amendment No 19. TheGroup is in favour of an environmentally friendly plan for traffic through the Alps, but such a plan must support the development of environmentally sound transport. That is not emphasised in the proposal.
Mr President, I do not wish to reopen a debate which this Parliament has already had but you were elected on a programme for reform of this House. Powerful elements in the two major groups have blocked that reform and I hope, Mr President, that the Council and the Commission, represented here today, will see the strength of feeling in this House in favour of such reform, greater than it has ever been, and will take that into account.
Mr President, you were very quick in drawing up the work plan. In accordance with Rule 110a of the Rules of Procedure, I should like a decision to be taken, without a debate, on the report on Austria’s initiative for drawing up a list of so-called safe countries that offer asylum. I have been the rapporteur for this report by the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, and the report was voted through by 27 votes in favour and two against.It would be unfortunate if a decision on this issue had to wait right until September. I should have liked to see a debate, but it would be good if we could take a decision on this issue in the course of this week. In accordance with Article 110a, I should like this report to be voted on this week.
Mr President, I too should like to thank Mr Rocard for his own-initiative report, even if I did not agree with his original view which was, of course, to establish supplementary health insurance schemes in all EU countries, founded on the principle of solidarity and governed by a common set of regulations. I can, however, support the Commission’s publishing a Green Paper explaining the ins and outs of such sickness insurance, focusing in particular upon sickness insurance in relation to cross-border activities and, in the process, looking into whether there is a need for further initiatives. Sickness insurance is, of course, a national responsibility and systems differ from one another. It is true, however, that the growing number of elderly people and the growing demands upon the health sector mean that the systems are coming under financial pressure. It is a problem calling for many different solutions, including better organised and more efficient health care, so that a better quality of service can be obtained for the same money. Moreover, new medical methods can also, in fact, lead to both better and cheaper forms of treatment.I am generally in favour of a system in which the money follows the patient as far as possible, so that it is the patient and not the system that is central. In this perspective, there is certainly justification for insurance-style sickness schemes and supplementary insurance schemes. However, the individual country must decide for itself what arrangements it prefers. It would be wrong if the EU were to devise rules concerning, for example, data relating to health, or requiring everyone to be insured and, in that way, destroy the multiplicity of supplementary health insurance schemes which exist today in many countries and operate on actuarial principles. It is right that, in connection with serious illnesses such as cancer and aids, there must be a compulsory system, founded on the principle of solidarity, which ensures good treatment for everybody. Supplementary health insurance must be just that: supplementary, for example, for those who are willing to pay for an extra service, or designed to cover the costs of more ordinary and frequently occurring illnesses for which actuarial calculations can reasonably be made.
Mr President, I would also like to lend my support to those who have signalled their congratulations to Eryl McNally for doing an excellent job in piloting this through Parliament and of course in conducting negotiations on our behalf with the other institutions.The rapporteur has already covered the main issues of substance, with all of which my group and I entirely agree. I only wish to make two additional wider points at this stage. Firstly, Intelligent Europe is not and should not be the title for this programme but, as the rapporteur herself suggested, should of course be the umbrella title for everything we do in the energy policy environment.As many colleagues know, we are facing a glut of legislation in the energy field today, this week and next week, ranging from combined heat and power through to trans-European networks and to the all-important electricity and gas liberalisation package. Collectively we hope all of those measures together represent a real, intelligent policy. If you will forgive me for using this ghastly phrase, they represent a 'joined-up policy, joined-up government'. To that end the Commissioner's declaration today is very important and much to be welcomed.The second point is about the budget. We warmly support the rapporteur's success in raising the overall budget, but it is worth noting that the EUR 200m, which is of course a great deal of money to you and me, is actually extremely little when compared to the enormous range of tasks which the Intelligent Energy programme is supposed to tackle.EUR 200m could easily be absorbed in any one of the four titles and for that reason alone – and of course this is something we have seen in other areas as well, the trans-European networks for instance – the seed money being put forward by the European Union is massively dwarfed by the tasks to be performed. For that reason, we really do hope that procedures will be as efficient as possible, will avoid duplication, will avoid unnecessary administrative and bureaucratic checks and will give the taxpayers the right bang for their bucks.
Mr President, the rapporteur has made every effort to reach consensus. She therefore deserves all credit for the emphatic result that is now before us. Many necessary improvements have been made to the measures against sexual intimidation and in connection with adoption leave and a woman’s right to return to her old job after maternity leave. If the Commission and the Council are serious about the equal treatment of men and women, they would do well to adopt all these amendments.I was astonished to find out from my Christian-Democratic counterparts that pregnancy is a purely female issue. On the contrary: it is of the utmost importance for men to be given the opportunity to be more involved in the new life that they have helped create.The joint amendment that is before us does not create new rights. We simply do not want men who wish to make use of their existing national rights, for example, to three –days’ leave, to be prevented from doing so. In the view of the liberal group, unlike that of the two major groups, it consequently seems hardly too much to ask for men and women to be able to make use of existing rights to combine work and care tasks without experiencing discrimination. We do live, after all, in the twenty-first century.Needless to say, the green-liberal-GUE amendment on mainstreaming is also an important addition. I therefore hope that the others will also support us in this and that we indeed face a more equal future backed by a broad majority.
Thank you, Madam President, this ‘debate’ speaks volumes about the chasm between Europe and its citizens. While we know that there is little public support for enlargement, there is hardly a critical noise to be heard in this House. This confirms the impression that this is the umpteenth European project that is being forced through by a European elite instead of holding an honest, open dialogue with genuinely concerned people. Honourable ladies and gentlemen of the Council and of the Commission, these people are not only rightwing-populist and anti-European types, they are also ordinary citizens with real concerns.In order to give this honest dialogue a shot in the arm, theis asking why the EU is granting asylum to people from countries with whom we are round the negotiating table? Either those countries are safe, in which case we should not accept any asylum seekers, or they are not safe, and they need to be taken to task over this in the framework of the political criteria. Theis taking the asylum obligations arising from the Geneva Convention very seriously. We want a humane and just policy. How can we achieve this following enlargement? This is our question.
Mr President, it is an awkward situation, this tenth anniversary of the elections of the NLD in Burma. Awkward because the Burmese junta was successful in obtaining international recognition. I refer, naturally, to Burma joining the ASEAN. It is quite possible that the other ASEAN Member States decided in favour of this with the best of intentions and in the hope that this would kick-start the democratisation process in Burma. We have to ascertain, however, that this is not how it worked, that this attempt failed and may well have brought about the opposite effect, judging from the smirks on the faces of the Burmese rulers when they hosted the ASEAN meeting of Ministers for Economic Affairs earlier this month.In our opinion, relations between the European Union and ASEAN should not suffer because of the problems within Burma. These relations are too important for this. It does mean, however, that, if this situation continues, we will need to discuss the situation in Burma in our contacts with ASEAN.However, we have to ascertain at the same time that our own sanctions were not that effective either. It may be opportune to consider whether we can take so-called intelligent sanctions against Burma. After all, sanctions should just focus on the one goal, namely the reinstatement of democracy in Burma.
Madam President, I simply wanted to add my voice to that of Mrs Palacio Vallelersundi before the vote started, to say that I regret very much the absence of the Council from this debate on such important votes on matters of the Third Pillar.I should like you, Madam President, to express to the Council our wish that they be present at such votes in future.(Applause)
Mr President, Commissioner, President-in-Office of the Council, I think there is a lot of truth in what my fellow MEPs, Mr Fava and Mr Staes, said about the continuous violence in Chechnya. The reports they have submitted about the lack of reconstruction and about obstacles placed in the way of the humanitarian organisations are shocking. The information we have obtained to the effect that 30 000 Russian soldiers took part in the referendum is mirth-inducing.Chechnya is an international issue. I think it is an outdated notion, incompatible with the EU’s general policy, to say that it is an internal matter for Russia to resolve. We must call for more vigorous efforts to be made and for greater support to be given, as well as for the OSCE to be allowed to open its office again. We need effective election monitoring. At the same time, we in the EU, too, must contribute to the reconstruction.
Mr President, along with many British Members of this House, I have received a large number of personal letters from constituents like the petitioners in this case. I welcome Mr Perry's dogged work on behalf of those petitioners, and confirm that my Group will support the report.However, there is a wider issue at play here, which affects the good functioning of Community law. I was a rapporteur for the last two years on the reports on the implementation and monitoring of Community law. As a Parliament we then called on the Commission to improve its infringement procedures and its dealings with complainants, calling in particular for correspondence passing between the Commission and the Member States to be made available.This is the area that any committee of inquiry should, and can, examine: the Commission's carrying out of its supervisory duty in implementing Community law. This need have nothing whatever to do with the current English High Court proceedings. It is about getting an answer for our citizens.Any committee of inquiry must get to grips with this central question about the efficiency of infringement proceedings. It must be said that this history goes back a long way to 1997. With the greatest respect to the Commissioner – and I have the utmost respect for his work – to say that everything is in order now is not entirely satisfactory. If the Commission cannot carry out its role as Guardian of the Treaties, this is really very serious and the whole legal framework of the Union can accordingly be brought into disrepute and called into question. We have to provide answers for our citizens.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for producing these successful reports and for their excellent work. The reports focus attention on the essential factors in increasing maritime safety.There is still, however, much to be done to improve maritime safety. Besides imposing stricter rules, we have to ensure that the solutions implemented are realistic and, furthermore, viable.The Council has incorporated in its general position a large number of the amendments adopted at Parliament’s first reading. Regarding classification societies, the problem is amending the article that deals with liability in such a way that maximum as well as minimum limits are defined in it. Many Member States do not, however, intend to accept that a maximum limit should be set.With regard to the directive on Port State control, the problem is the black boxes, which we must hurry to fit in vessels. There must be a black box on all ships, but financial reality makes it necessary to seek solutions wherein present cargo vessels could be equipped with technically simplified black boxes.In my opinion, the approval and scrutiny of classification societies must be tightened up. Expanded inspections must be made of high-risk vessels in particular. The criteria for allowing high-risk, blacklisted vessels access to a port must be made more stringent.Our group thinks it important that a solution be found for the problems, that both proposals be adopted speedily, and that we make progress in matters of safety. I still nevertheless wish to draw attention to the fact that decisions made solely within the Union to increase maritime safety are not enough. For example, questions of liability must be dealt with on a global basis.
Mr President, Commissioner, the airwaves are buzzing. You cannot open a newspaper or put the radio or television on without being confronted by new developments in the IT or digitalisation sectors. Things are happening fast, in fact they are happening at the speed of light, which is why my group is delighted with the communication from the Commission and with Mr Veltroni’s exhaustive report, which looks into every aspect of these new developments.As the rapporteur rightly points out, the AV sector is an extremely important sector in terms of employment, but also in terms of freedom of expression, democracy and cultural diversity in Europe. But as far as theis concerned, that does not mean that Europe should set about regulating absolutely everything. This would not be possible, and nor would it be desirable. It is a self-aware sector and is perfectly capable of standing on its own two feet. As the Liberals see it, for one thing this means that there is no need for yet another additional subsidy over and above Media Plus for the European film industry.Complementary measures and cooperation with the business community, and fiscal measures, these are the key words of a more effective policy intended to increase the financial resources and to improve the marketing and distribution. That is why we have requested split voting for Recital N. Nor are we in favour of quotas. The TV operators must decide for themselves, on the basis of quality, what programmes they want to show. It is not Europe’s business to regulate this, so no artificial protection. The industry in Europe is more than capable of making interesting and quality productions that will attract viewers. As I have already said, it is only the marketing and distribution that need to be improved.On a final note: we attach a great deal of importance to the freedom of the user and therefore the same applies to parents. They have the right and the responsibility to decide for themselves what is suitable for their children. So we do not need complex censorship and filtering systems in programmes. It is often very doubtful as to where the boundary lies. And we certainly do not want a legal framework, where the powers that be set the rules. My group will vote accordingly.
Mr President, I do not have the time to delve into the possible differences between the text of the reports and the personal views of each of the rapporteurs. I will therefore focus my comments on the Commission’s statement and on the contribution of the Commissioner, and will offer both my strong support. In my view, the Commission is fulfilling its role as guardian of the treaties on this matter perfectly. I believe the Stability and Growth Pact is not dead. I believe that above and beyond the arguably controversial statements made at the end of last year on formulas that could be perceived as risky, it is important to insist upon the distinction between the letter and the spirit of the Stability and Growth Pact and to ensure that its spirit is kept alive. The Maastricht criteria mean we are committed to a monetary union that is also a political union based on a number of values. The stability on which the euro is based goes beyond the technical definition of the concept. It amounts to a mutual agreement on a form of social contract. As well as being a strong currency, the euro must above all be a stable currency. In proclaiming this principle, Europe is setting aside its bad habits of the twentieth century, characterised by inflation, which represented a tax for poor people. Europe has decided to commit itself to being a confident society with a stake in the future. These are the values we are presenting to the countries about to join the European Union. Herein lies another reason not to alter these values by taking imprudent action which would undermine them. When players are not doing well at a game, they do not ask for the rules to be changed, but learn them instead.
Mr President, the legal package before us aims at creating a legal basis for certain cultural, educational and youth action programmes. The purpose of these is to provide institutions and organisations in this area with financial support. The European Parliament’s budget has been used, in accordance with the A-30 lines, to support certain institutions, and NGOs that function on a voluntary basis in particular, which have promoted European activity and strengthened European identity. Over the years grants for organisations have become established to the extent that their allocation has been something that former recipients of aid have taken for granted. Selecting which organisations and institutions should receive financial support seems to have been a remarkably arbitrary process. New operators have said that inclusion has been very difficult, as the selection criteria have been vague. The choice seems to have been influenced more by the fact that the organisations selected have had strong advocates on the relevant parliamentary committees than by the quality of their operation being superior to that of others. This detail received attention when the Financial Regulation was being reviewed, with appropriations earmarked in the budget headings finally being cut or cancelled.The legal package now under discussion will create a legal basis for grants to organisations active in the fields of education, culture and youth work. The aim must be for the forms of financial assistance from the European Union to be transparent and properly justified. This means that grants to organisations that are repeated and taken for granted should be few in number or they should not exist at all. Organisations and institutions have to demonstrate clearly that they are centres of excellence and better than others in the field. Funding must be based on applications assessed impartially and fairly. Financing has to be channelled in a way that clearly defines those targets the achievement of which the EU supports, and any recipient of aid must produce a credible report on the use of funds. I wish to thank the rapporteurs, Ulpu Iivari, Doris Pack and Christa Prets for their excellent reports.
Mr President, I am very glad that Mrs Randzio-Plath mentioned the very important context of our debate because up until now no other speaker has done so. The advent of the euro at the beginning of last year unleashed enormous competitive forces within European business which are being met by a merger wave of quite unprecedented proportions. For example, the figures for last year now show that the total value of mergers in the European area was EUR 1.4 trillion, which is seven times the level of merger activity at the peak of the last European merger boom in 1990.This poses enormous challenges for competition policy, which I hope it will be able to meet because, for certain, many of those mergers are going to be designed to protect profit margins of the businesses from competition rather than merely to enhance productivity and make those businesses able to operate on a bigger scale. Commissioner Monti and his colleagues have a tremendous challenge ahead of them and our worries in the  Group are that there should be no weakening in the thrust of competition policy either in the examination of mergers or the monitoring of restrictive practices. Delegation to national authorities is all very well but we would emphasise what Mr von Wogau said in his report on the need for regular monitoring of national authorities to ensure that there is no slippage in the European element, and, particularly would ask the Commissioner to reassure us that there would be random checks on that.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the use of sustainable renewable energy sources must be one of the principle objectives of a modern energy policy in Europe as well, but there must also be obligations and certainties, dictated by common sense, of course.In this sense, hydroelectric power is important, and it has been both a burden and a blessing for the mountain peoples, for they have had to pay a very high price for their land and have watched local industrialisation processes spring up, associated precisely with the presence of this energy source. Now this resource – renewable energy par excellence – must be fully exploited: without further harm to the environment, of course, and along with the introduction of compensation and repossession mechanisms for the mountain peoples. This directive does, of course, take the desired line in that here, at last, is genuine exploitation of renewable energies.
Mr President, I wish to congratulate Mrs Peijs on a successful report. There are many problems and bottlenecks with regard to transport in Europe: roads and air space are congested and the competitiveness of the railways is poor. This week here in Parliament there have been many important reports on the subject of transport, all aimed at relieving congestion and reducing bottlenecks.Mrs Peijs’s splendid report aims at exploiting the opportunities offered by short sea shipping. It is an important addition to the reports on railways and air traffic. We indeed need viable and competitive logistical chains linking road traffic, rail transport, short sea shipping and, in addition, modern information technology. For remote countries across the seas, and that includes Finland, short sea shipping is an absolutely vital necessity, just as Mr Paasilinna there just said.I wish to mention the importance of the suitability and availability of ports and port services. Ports must be included in the Trans-European Network as part of the transport infrastructure. For the measures proposed in the report to be implemented, good levels of co-operation will be required between the Union, Member States, players at local level, and companies too, as will genuine investment of time and money in short sea shipping.
Madam President, allow me a final remark on Ireland. Is it not strange that those Members of Parliament who speak most about national independence are the same ones who lead massive foreign intervention in elections in other countries? I look forward to asking them on Wednesday what it is they want. Do they want to weaken Ireland the same way they weakened Denmark ten years ago? I warn against that.(Applause)
Thank you, Mr President, more than half of the countries in the world have abolished capital punishment either in law or in practice, and this number of countries is on the increase. Moreover, these are mainly former countries of the Soviet Union and surrounding areas. In Europe too, important steps are being taken towards the abolition of capital punishment, even in times of war. This has been rubberstamped by more than 36 European countries. In Asia too, there is a trend in this direction, on the part of both governments and human rights organisations.Despite this, and despite the positive steps being taken in the Japanese parliament, the situation in Japan is still very distressing. The number of executions that take place every year is fewer than in many other countries. Between 1993 and 2000, 39 prisoners were executed. The attendant system, however, is very different from what one would expect from a civilised and leading industrial nation. The executions take place by hanging. It takes 15 to 20 minutes before the condemned person finally dies. There have also been cases where the lawyers were not even able to collect the bodies in due course, but only the cremated remains of the prisoners.I welcome with open arms the announcement of the Taiwanese Ministry of Justice that capital punishment will be abolished in Taiwan in 2004. Executions were still taking place in Taiwan until 1998. This has now stopped, and in January of this year, the Mandatory Death Penalty Act of 1944 was repealed. In South Korea too, we see very hopeful movements in the direction of abolishing capital punishment. This too is to be welcomed.
Mr President, let us exercise honesty rather than hypocrisy. The European Union, the United States and the United Nations have all displayed considerable concern about the developments in Sierra Leone. We are not prepared to make any sacrifices. The United States is paralysed by the Somalia syndrome. The Union hides behind Washington’s back. We Europeans even leave the initiative to the Americans who send Jesse Jackson and let him loose in Freetown like a bull in a china shop.The United Nations’ intervention has once again turned into a fiasco. Only thanks to the United Kingdom were we able to stop the rebels in their tracks and arrest their leader, Sankoh. This offers opportunities for a peace deal which far outstrips the laughable one which has been shot to tatters. More than anything, we now need a watertight diamond boycott.To complain about cruel massacres and mutilations becomes very hypocritical if we ourselves allow the diamond industry to earn a fortune on the back of blood-stained diamonds. I would call for at least exercising more honesty when we discuss Africa.
Mr President, Commissioner, if Europe is to grow, attract capital and create jobs, the single market for financial services must be turned into a reality. Up until now, it has mostly been a matter of words and all too few concrete measures. At present, the financial services market and, through this, Europe’s power to grow have been impeded by countless national regulations and administrative complications. These are detrimental not only to companies but also, of course, to Europe’s citizens.The development of the Internet is, and will be, of great importance to the provision of financial services across national borders. Above all, it is consumers who will benefit from this development because they will have greater choice and access to lower prices.We Liberals do not regard tax harmonisation as a prerequisite for bringing the single market for financial services to fruition, even if a degree of harmonisation may prove to be necessary to avoid harmful competition over taxes. The euro has stabilised economic development and provided better opportunities to reduce the costs of acquiring capital, something which benefits both companies and private households.It is my conviction that, if the EU is to be able to provide Europe’s citizens with growth and strength, then all Member States must participate fully in the EU project, that is to say, be members of EMU.Mr Romano Prodi’s statement today in a Swedish newspaper to the effect that Sweden could stay outside EMU is therefore both surprising from an economic point of view and doubtful in terms of the Treaties.The Commission’s Green Paper on liberalising complementary forms of pension protection is something we welcome. It is nonetheless important to emphasise that pension cover in Europe is characterised by national diversity and that there is no need to harmonise the various systems in order to create a single market. It is important that a large number of systems should exist side by side. This increases choice and diversity. However, it is desirable, in order to avoid double taxation, to introduce a minimum degree of harmonisation in regard to the Member States’ treatment of supplementary pensions for tax purposes. I also consider that the Member States themselves should be able to determine what the system should look like, for example whether or not the care of relatives should be covered by pensions. This is an issue which can be resolved better at national level.In committee there was lively discussion on biometric risks. Views were put forward to the effect that only those systems which cover risks of this kind are to be included under the directive. We do not believe that this should be the case, especially in view of the need for small and medium-sized companies to be able to do business. Freedom of choice is emphatically a good thing.Finally, I want to congratulate Mr García-Margallo y Marfil and Mr Kuckelkorn for two important reports designed to create a competitive Europe.
Mr President, the directive on the incineration of waste is well intended but I think those responsible for preparing it have gone into too much detail. I am mainly worried about the so-called coincineration of waste. Sorted community waste and, for example, the fibrous pulp sludge that is produced in forest industry processes serve as good fuel supplements for many heating plants. The draft, however, calls for ongoing, expensive, to some extent impossible, and environmentally unnecessary monitoring of plants that are engaged in harmless coincineration. The end result will run counter to the original aim: non-hazardous sorted waste, which is a valid form of fuel for heating plants, will have to be driven to a landfill site to add to methane emissions or it will have to be transported hundreds of kilometres to large incinerators, all the while polluting the environment.There are many amendments in the report that are problematic. I think the matter should either go back to the Committee or the Council’s common position, at least its main features, should be adhered to.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, I am extremely concerned that this affair of the Charter of Fundamental Rights will have a negative effect on public opinion.The Charter of Fundamental Rights has been accepted in its entirety by the informal Biarritz Council. Parliament has called unanimously upon the Summit to decide now whether to include the Charter in the Treaties. However, it is no simple matter, it is not easy to accept that the Community institutions which believe in this Charter can then hold back from giving it legal effect. It is a sign which could contribute to turning the public increasingly against the European project, as, sadly, is already happening even in the candidate countries. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has decided on a method and a timetable which mean that the inclusion of the Charter in the Treaties is a decisive step towards the constitutionalisation of the Union. Therefore, the Council must stop making excuses and express an opinion.A further point is the Commission reforms. It would be short-sighted to envisage a Commission structured according to criteria based on the representation of the individual States. Until we are able to feel that each Commissioner represents all the citizens, irrespective of his or her nationality, we will not be genuinely united in our project.Lastly, closer cooperation. I reiterate once again that closer cooperation must be treated as a means of harmonising differences and, therefore, of strengthening the Community spirit, and not as a means of division. Nevertheless, if it is to be effective, cooperation must not be choked by constraints.(Applause)
Mr President, Commissioner, I should like to thank you and my esteemed fellow MEP, Mr Harbour, for their reports to this House. It is, however, slightly ironical that the best information about what happened at the summit has appeared on the radical party’s web sites. The EU’s own web sites have contained extremely little information about this summit. What kind of information society do we live in? It is good that a summit should have been held because international cooperation is required where Internet security is concerned. We believe we achieved something to combat spam when we adopted the directive on privacy protection in electronic communications, but we have got nowhere. As I say, international cooperation is needed.It was good that the final document contained regulations on free competition, values, methods and the neutrality of technology, which showed that success is being achieved in Europe in creating an information society. As is usual in the case of international conferences, the action plan and the final document contain many sound pledges concerning how this is to be developed and how we can help the developing countries. An interminable number of international summits have now taken place at which we have given pledges concerning, for example, education for all and the fast track initiative within the World Bank to help children and, above all, girls to benefit from an education. In spite of this, nothing is happening. Regarding the fast track initiative within the World Bank, the developed countries have not even been able to comply with their modest pledge of slightly more than USD 300 million. After no more than a year and a half, we are over USD 100 million in arrears. When will the developing countries stop believing in what is said in these international forums?Before this summit, the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party stated that we cannot see Tunisia being a host country for the follow-up conference as long as it violates freedom of expression. In that respect, we are disappointed in the outcome.
By way of clarification, does the Commission consider it conceivable that the European Union will allow Cuba to accede to the Cotonou Agreement as long as the political detainees now sentenced remain in detention?
Madam President, on the same subject of TV reception, as raised by my colleague Mrs Plooij-van Gorsel, I wish to express the hope that the technical problems currently preventing the reception of BBC1 and BBC2 can be resolved. I realise that we English-speakers are spoilt with Sky, CNN and BBC World, but it is not the same as having the domestic channels.
Mr President, Zimbabwe really had all the qualifications for becoming a prosperous and successful country in southern Africa. That is why it is so incredibly tragic to see it heading straight for the abyss. Zimbabwe has been discussed by us many times in this House, as I know it has also been in the other institutions. We have often thought we have seen some small glimpse of hope or gleam of light. We have been wrong every time. There are no such glimmers. The situation is alarming. Zimbabwe is a lawless, economically impoverished country governed by a dictatorial old ruler who has completely lost contact with reality and with his own people.Robert Mugabe breaks promise after promise made to surrounding countries. He has not succeeded in stopping the illegal land occupations or in bringing about fair land reform. Human rights are infringed on a daily basis, and the opposition is harassed and persecuted in an unacceptable way. The regime is thoroughly corrupt and, in terms of democracy, the impending elections, in which election workers are threatened, harassed and imprisoned, cannot be called anything other than a joke. Freedom of expression is totally restricted.We must immediately break off all communication with, and suspend all assistance to, the Zimbabwean regime. All Mugabe’s foreign assets and all those of his family should be frozen. I really want to appeal to both the Commission and the Council to be crystal-clear in their condemnation of Mugabe’s regime and to state that our and the world community’s patience is at an end. We must establish a broad, international coalition and form of cooperation with the SADC states so as to put pressure on the regime and take measures against it. At the same time, it is of course important to find ways of supporting the opposition. There is a small number of courageous people who, at risk to their own lives, are fighting for democracy and human dignity.(Applause)
Mr President, I have to say that I am not very happy about the Commissioner’s remark that there is no violation of Regulation 95/46. Paragraph 4 of the agreement itself states that all data of European passengers will be processed according to US constitutional requirements. One of the laws in the United States that should apply is the Privacy Act, but this Act does not apply to people from third countries, to name but one example. Article 6 of the agreement states that there will be reciprocity insofar as feasible and that it shall be strictly applied. I do not want to have the debate now, but I can easily give you another ten examples of things that are not right and are, in my view, a violation of our privacy legislation. For that reason alone, we should put this matter to the Court.In the previous debate, the Commissioner said, with regard to the passing on of data to third parties, that ‘we are still in negotiation with the United States’. I heard this correctly last time and also this time round. It is surely too crazy for words that I as rapporteur have to submit to this House a report on adequacy finding, while the Commission itself still holds the view that the whole matter was inadequate. This is something I really do want to bring in to the debate.I should like to thank all those Members who have spoken out in favour of recourse to the Court. I think that the question to the Court, as to whether we can conclude international agreements in which both Parliament and the American Congress are placed offside, is a very interesting one indeed. In consultations with members of the Congress, I have been given to understand that, should such an agreement be put to the American Congress, it would never agree to it.We in this House should now also demonstrate that we know how to stand up for our citizens and not be put under pressure by anybody. We are alone in being able to do this. I am therefore hopeful that Parliament will follow the line taken by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market.
I would like to thank Mr Zimmerling for the work he has done on this report. Although it is an attempt to protect artists, in fact, together with the Commission proposal as it is now before us, it has actually achieved the opposite effect. Of course, I realise that artists are entitled to remuneration for their creativity, but unlike books, in the case of visual arts, this right is actually bought at the initial sale. Furthermore, in countries such as the Netherlands, where resale right has not been applied so far, there are plenty of options for both the young and more established artists in the shape of a buoyant art trade, which also benefits the artists.Resale right as it is now proposed requires a massive amount of red tape, whilst the benefit for the individual young artist is minimal. Moreover, it is exceptionally difficult to check whether the art trade keeps to this resale right.This regulation, therefore, has a restricting rather than a stimulating effect. Also, both the young and the renowned artist will suffer if the international trade moves outside the European borders due to European over-regulation.I therefore have no choice but to vote against this directive.- Oostlander report (A5-0363/2000)
Mr President, Vice-President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I too would like to congratulate the rapporteurs, in particular on their close cooperation, because the interrelated nature of the package requires the reports to be relatively interdependent. I would also like to mention that the committee of which I am chairman has worked well on this matter, as always. It is no coincidence that, during 2002, the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism initiated 34 reports in the transport sector, seven of which focused precisely on the modernisation of the railways. It is quite clear, however, that the committee is concerned by certain delays in the Council and has made this clear in more or less formal terms. I, personally, have even written a letter to the Danish Presidency, and I will reiterate these same points to the Greek Transport Minister, Mr Verelis, who is coming to visit the committee and attend a hearing next week.The first railway package is closely related to the second railway package and, just like the carriages of a train, they must move forward, or else there will be a real danger of a kind of rail traffic jam. The second railway package is important, and I would like to say that our approach is not an ideological promotion of the railways, of which we are sometimes accused. I believe that the case of freight transport is extremely significant: the use of the railways is continuing to decline, despite all the good intentions expressed. When I consider specific cases which are particularly important to me such as the trans-Alpine routes, I find this totally unacceptable.I regret to say that there is no genuine European rail network. We are building it with these directives. It is strange that, with all their areas of sovereignty taken away from them, the only one remaining for the States in Europe is a kind of railway sovereignty, which we have got to break up and reshape in a European mould.
Mr President, Commissioner, I have to admit that I am speaking on behalf of a significant minority within our group. The drugs situation in Europe is becoming worse and worse. The fact that our borders are becoming ever more open is basically something to be welcomed, of course, but the downside of this is that smuggling, including drug smuggling, is on the increase. I am concerned that it looks as if more and more countries are abandoning clear and explicit restrictive attitudes to drug abuse. Our objective must be nothing other than a drugs-free Europe. Giving up that objective would be tantamount to leaving thousands of young people in the lurch.Mr President, I am well aware of Mr Oostlander’s problems in arriving at a balanced view. In general, I think he has succeeded. I welcome the more restrictive tone he has adopted here today, but there are wordings I do not agree with. What is absolutely clear is that the amendments are along completely the wrong lines. To embrace a permissive attitude towards so-called soft drugs would be devastating. We know that these are the gateway to heavy drug abuse.We Swedish Liberals, and a large proportion of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party in general, will vote against all attempts to relax the strict and clear policy on drugs. We reject Amendments Nos 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 33, 34, 35 and 37. We are able to accept Amendments Nos 32 and 36.
Mr President, this is not a just war. Liberal Democrats have consistently argued in this House that war would be justified only as a last resort, if inspections had failed and if it were explicitly authorised by the UN Security Council.We prefer the force of argument to the argument of force. Nonetheless, much as we abhor Saddam Hussein's regime, we deeply regret that as we breakfasted in Brussels the bombs were falling on Baghdad. I hope, for the sake of the Iraqi people and for the sake of our troops doing their duty as professional soldiers, that this war will be as swift and as bloodless as possible.In the absence of UN legitimacy and moral authority there is a duty on the countries prosecuting this war to do so in a way that is consistent with international norms and conventions. That means not using disproportionate force, not using the cluster bombs that drop small mines around the place, not using the incapacitating gas such as that used in the theatre in Moscow, not using the devastating MOAB bomb where air burst and mushroom clouds caused mass destruction. They might also take care not to litter the Iraqi desert with depleted uranium.(Applause from the  Group)Once this war is over it will be imperative that the United States and the United Kingdom shoulder their responsibilities in rebuilding rapidly a peaceful, stable and prosperous Iraq for the inhabitants who have suffered so terribly under our sanctions regime. This will require the lifting of sanctions and immediate humanitarian aid. It means uniting the different communities of Iraq and the building of stable institutions to secure the future. Beyond that, they also need to establish a criminal tribunal for the crimes of the Iraqi regime and they must give back control of the oil fields to the Iraqi people.If those countries can bring the same conviction and determination to the solution of the Israeli-Palestine conflict and the same zeal to eliminating their own weapons of mass destruction, as they demand of the Iraqis, then we might make progress. It is important that the US does not act unilaterally in deciding the fate of Iraq. Once this war is over, the European Union must be a standard bearer for humanitarian values. We must be broadminded and generous and assume fully our responsibilities in the rebuilding of Iraq. This is not the moment to haggle with the USA over the cost of reconstruction. Europe must play its part with no hidden agenda.As our heads of state and government meet this weekend they must discuss how we can limit the economic fallout of the war for Europe's economy, how the ECB can stand ready to act swiftly to restore confidence in our currency if needed, and how governments can show a renewed commitment to the reforms needed to revive Europe's economy. They must also discuss, and be prepared to discuss when the crisis is over, why Europe has failed over Iraq.It could yet be that this crisis will prove a turning point if our heads of state and government finally accept the need for a common foreign policy and a single EU seat at the UN Security Council, because Europe's troubled tribalism means that Washington wins the day. If there is a lesson to be learned from this crisis in London, Paris, Berlin and Madrid, it is that if we had a common foreign and security policy our world view would prevail.(Applause)
Mr President, Commissioner, this debate and situation have come at the worst possible time for the EU and is causing a lot of harm. Just think, ladies and gentlemen: we should and must defend the European agricultural model at the WTO talks in Seattle.We have made a decision that there should be no import ban on British meat but, nonetheless, within the EU – an EU which should represent a free economic area at its best – a decision is being made to impose an import ban. This is an absolutely inconceivable situation! The English have had to suffer the inconveniences of BSE for quite long enough. They have done all they can to get the problem off the agenda and solved. That was a very commendable thing. It seems inconceivable that we should take a joint decision to lift the ban on the export of British meat, and yet we decide, for our part, that the ban on importing it has not been lifted at all.Just think of the future, when we are discussing EU enlargement. Let us take the example of Poland. If Poland’s agricultural standards quickly reach the average standards in the EU, it will just about be able to feed the whole of the EU on its own. That is why we must defend the European agricultural model at the WTO talks, so as to safeguard exports in the future since, in the years and decades to come, we will not find a solution to the problems of agriculture anywhere else but in exports. These are basic principles.In a way both England and France are guilty: it is a case of the pot calling the kettle black. If, in Finland, my country, we were to make feed which had had sludge added to it, that plant would be closed down the next day – you can be quite sure of that. There is no way you can produce feed from sludge. We in the EU are allowing this situation to continue, although it was banned in 1991.We will certainly have to take a good look at ourselves and contemplate what sort of image we want to present to the outside world, and how we should accomplish that, in this very difficult and delicate situation, when we join the WTO talks and when we consider the issue of EU enlargement and what the future will look like. These sorts of crises have to be dealt with very quickly. We can do it by ourselves, and only by ourselves, and we must do so as quickly as possible.
Mr President, Romania has made exceptional progress in recent months. The magnificent efforts by the Prime Minister and his team have created laudable results. NATO membership in Prague this autumn is now a certainty and the impact of that body of work on European Union enlargement will be wholly beneficial.Romania now stands at the crossroads. It is a European nation, yet European standards and our fundamental values are still not fully adhered to by all levels of society. The government's strong fight against corruption is hampered by lack of financial, human and material resources, with the inevitable knock-on effect of a low absorption rate of EU funds.Thus new methods are needed to boost Romania's progress in the coming months after the big bang. We must take new initiatives. It is imperative that the newly emerging political map of Europe, with its plague of unhealthy nationalism, does not threaten Romania's entry into the European Union. If the enlargement window of opportunity starts to close, I urge the Union to lead Romania more swiftly through the narrowing gap of full EU membership so that she is not left languishing on the margins.Romania should be guaranteed early membership even if some of the acquis communautaire is not wholly complete. Surely we can find an entry date with the aim, say, of completing negotiations by the end of 2006. Surely that is within our grasp. Under Ceaucescu, many hundreds of thousands of Romanians showed incredible courage based on their deepest attachment to our core values of truth, freedom and respect for the human dignity of every individual.I recall that in Bucharest in 1990 the main streets were dark, unlit and the only vehicles were driven by the secret police. Last week those same streets were alive and buoyant with a massive international trade with traffic jams, shops and offices, and the bustle of normal life. Romania's bloodless revolution has brought her through into the free world. She still has some way to travel to be with us here today but exceptional efforts surely deserve exceptional responses.I congratulate the Commission, with Romania's people, the primary architects of the country's success, for bringing her to that level of integration today. I look for new thinking and creative achievements in the months ahead to give Romania the tools she needs to finish the job.
That was a very full and helpful reply, Commissioner. In relation to your comment that you could not necessarily infer the issues in my question, I should like to point out that I was directly quoting the head of a police intelligence service in London, who was commenting on the effects of Turkish heroin in the UK.As a supplementary, I should like to ask you about the 'small Dublin group' to be set up in Ankara. In your own words, could you define that term for me?
Mr President, two days ago, we Finns received tragic news – the beautiful beaches around Runsala near Turku had been affected by an oil slick from an unknown source. Unfortunately, the proposals being debated today will not help in this type of case. This is a classic example of a discharge from an unknown source, and despite the restructuring of port and pilotage fees which we have adopted at EU level, these small discharges have increased in the Baltic Sea. The risk of being prosecuted is also very small.At the same time, we are now, unfortunately, seeing the opening of the port in Primorsk. This port has severely icy conditions, and we know that the package which we are approving today may not perhaps lead to vessels having double hulls until 2017. However, double hulls are no help now, as the ice has already formed in Primorsk port. Only through compulsory pilotage, effective strengthening of the hull against ice, efficient traffic monitoring and good teamwork between the rescue services can we do anything for this port and this unique part of the world. I would ask you, Commissioner, in your continued contacts with Russia, to focus attention on the safety of traffic to Primorsk.
Mr President, once again we are talking about Colombia, a dearly loved country on the American continent but regrettably, once again, we are doing so because of the negative issues affecting it.If we study recent events in Colombia, we generally see a discouraging and tragic picture, in which the human rights situation leaves much to be desired. Nevertheless, we are optimists and must have faith and hope in the way of negotiation and of dialogue and in respect for tolerance, in order to achieve peace in Colombia once and for all.Perhaps it would be appropriate on this occasion to mention an illustrious European, the German naturalist, Alexander von Humboldt, who, exactly 200 years ago, travelled to that part of the world and established the bases for cooperation between peoples and the defence of human rights.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to thank all those Members who took part in the debates on my report in committee, and in particular the shadow rapporteurs of the various political groups, Mrs Oomen-Ruijten, Mr Bowe, Mrs Schörling and Mr Sjöstedt. We have before us the proposal for a directive amending for the 24th time the 1976 dangerous substances directive, which proposes restrictions on the marketing and use of pentabromodiphenyl ether.What exactly is at issue here? Pentabromodiphenyl ether is a flame retardant, 95% of which is used in the manufacture of flexible polyurethane foam for furniture and in particular upholstery. It is found, for example, in car head-rests and in the protective foam used for packing items of electrical and electronic equipment.Starting with pentaBDE and its harmful effect on our environment and on our health, the picture is very clear indeed. A preliminary study carried out in 1998 by the Swedish authorities indicates a high concentration of this substance in breast milk. Two opinions of the Scientific Committee on Toxicity, Ecotoxicity and the Environment from February and June 2000 highlight the damage that could be caused by pentaBDE in relation to discharging this substance into the environment and its being a persistent and bioaccumulative substance. There is therefore a risk to the environment and to human health. There is a unanimity of opinions on this. It was therefore totally logical for the Commission to propose in January of this year a total ban on the marketing and use of pentaBDE. And I would say that it was also logical for our Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy to vote to confirm this ban.A second substance, octabromodiphenyl ether, is also directly affected by the directive in view of the percentage of pentaBDE residues that it contains when it is sold. OctaBDE is used mainly here as a flame retardant in furniture made of plastic and in office equipment. In this case, the Commission preferred to accept the final conclusions of the risk assessment study still being carried out for this substance. It therefore restricted itself to limiting the percentage of pentaBDE residues authorised in octaBDE to 5%. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy does not share this view. In fact it seems to us to be totally contradictory to ban pentaBDE while permitting the presence of what we regard as significant quantities of pentaBDE in other chemical products, in other substances. Furthermore, I would say that the initial results of the current risk assessment, of which I am aware, are negative and tend to prove the harmful effect of this product not only on the environment but also on public health. These two areas have been assessed by British and French experts respectively, and I have consulted those experts in detail. In view of these different factors, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy has tabled an amendment which would extend the marketing ban to octabromodiphenyl ether also, thus strictly applying the precautionary principle. I think I do not need to remind you that the precautionary principle does not mean waiting until there is absolute proof, which in this case would mean waiting for the final result of the risk assessment, when there is sufficiently serious and tangible evidence to demonstrate that a substance could have harmful effects on public health and on the environment. That is exactly the case with octaBDE.Third and last, and things always seem to go in threes, there is decabromodiphenyl ether, another flame retardant in the same family, which in practice accounts for 80% of this family of brominated substances and has a great many applications, not just in electrical and electronic equipment but also and above all in insulating and building products and in textiles. DecaBDE is the only one of these three substances not to be mentioned at all in the Commission document. Yet I regard it as being difficult, nay, impossible, and I will come back to this point in a few moments, to exclude decaBDE, which is why in Amendment No 4 in my report I call for a method for the evaluation of risks by family of chemical products, and no longer on an individual substance by substance basis. In order to ensure coherence, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy has extended the scope of this directive to cover all the polybromodiphenyl ethers. This is totally in line with this House’s recent vote on the electrical and electronic equipment directive. While waiting for precise information to emerge from the risk assessment in relation to decaBDE which is also currently in progress, Amendment No 16, which I have tabled in conjunction with the PPE Group and the Socialist Group, essentially proposes a ban on decaBDE with effect from 1 January 2006, unless the risk assessment in some way exonerates this substance and concludes that decaBDE does not pose any problems. So this is a sort of reversibility clause.While I am on the subject of amendments, I would like to mention that I oppose Amendment No 9, which aims to change the title of the proposal so as to extend the immediate ban to the marketing of decaBDE. I do not really have any fundamental philosophical objection to Amendments Nos 12, 13 and 14, but I prefer the Commission’s original text. With regard to the other amendment tabled by the Confederal Group of the, I believe that my report already takes account of the criticisms contained in Amendment No 11 regarding the extremely cumbersome nature of the risk assessment and control procedures for existing substances. I mentioned that just now.To conclude, the Council Working Party on Dangerous Substances, which will be meeting in a week’s time, will determine the broad guidelines to be adopted by the Internal Market Council on 27 September. I hope that they will make it possible to narrow the gap between the positions of Parliament and the Commission. I also hope, indeed I think, that it will be quite possible at second reading to finalise the adoption of this proposal for a directive amending the dangerous substances directive for the 24th time.
Mr President, I too would like to thank and congratulate the rapporteur. It is a very timely and well-produced report on what, as has already been said, is a very complex and sensitive issue.Although it is complex it is an issue to which we have to take a practical approach. There have been times in our committee when we have been presented with initiatives from the Member States, where they want us to introduce penalties, but we find ourselves in a situation where we cannot respond as they would like. Bearing that situation in mind, when it comes to the IGC, the Council and Member States will appreciate the good sense of what is being proposed here.I was also struck by the idea presented to us – at the enlightening hearing with experts when Mr Koukiadis was preparing this report – that the Community should and must have the wherewithal to protect its own property in the widest sense. That is what we are talking about: property in its widest sense.But there is one point I would like to make and underline. If we are to give the Community power in this area of competence – and we should – then it should also be underpinned by the sort of balance achieved by the Community itself signing up to the European Convention on Human Rights. If we are to have some competence, albeit limited, in the criminal field, this must be balanced by measuring that legislation against something fundamental and basic that guarantees our citizens' human rights.
Mr President, the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party is very satisfied with Mr Belder’s report on Russia. We are nevertheless prepared to accept some amendments. On the other hand, we hope there is support by the other groups for our own amendment, which concerns the position of national minorities in Russia.Recently we in the European Union have been pondering our relations with Russia. The conclusion we have jointly come to is that the formally adopted strategy has not worked satisfactorily. The main reason for this is that the Union has been incapable of showing any united front in its dealings with Russia, but instead some Member States, the bigger ones in particular, have been inclined to go their own way. This situation has to be rectified.There is, however, another key reason for our failings, something that has been given too little attention in our deliberations. In the Union there is insufficient knowledge or understanding of the political situation in Russia. Russia, at least up till now, has not complied with the diplomatic and political principles that we and other Western countries take for granted. This has been evident, for example, in the fact that Russia has been adamant about not agreeing to extend the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement to the new Member States of the EU. Perhaps the threat of sanctions would not have the desired effect either, but might instead lead to a trade war in which the Member States of the EU might come off worse than Russia. I have not noticed any such threat being made as yet, however, although it has perhaps been discussed at times.Calm and patience are needed in relations with Russia. To be able to realise our own objectives effectively and keep a watch over our own interests, we always have to consider the special political circumstances that obtain in Russia, hard and wearisome though that sometimes is.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should first of all like to thank Mrs Gutiérrez-Cortines warmly for the effort she has made to write this own-initiative report. I could not agree more that knowledge is the key to competitiveness and economic and social development in Europe, but I certainly do not see eye to eye on all her conclusions.Universities play a vital role when it comes to turning Europe into the most dynamic and competitive knowledge-based economy. It is therefore very important for them to maintain mutual contact and exchange information and experiences. The pre-condition is, however, that they should offer high-quality education in an attempt to create centres of excellence within the academic world. I completely share Mrs Gutiérrez-Cortines' view that the mobility of students, lecturers and researchers could be much improved. Administratively, many stumbling blocks could be removed. However, I cannot see the good in the Commission and Member States having to promote the establishment of a European University Seat. Accordingly, it is not clear to me what role a representation of the Member States and of Parliament would be playing in this.Another point, the validity of which passes me by, is the setting up of a separate European cultural university. Language and literature, philosophy and communication are already being taught at existing universities, while special academies cater for the arts. The report points at the need for an intercultural dialogue with the world's other regions. This is all well and good, but it does suggest that the existing universities are completely introspective and maintain no contact with the rest of the world, and this is simply no longer the case. I therefore fear, Mrs Gutiérrez-Cortines, that my group, despite the fact that we agree on certain aspects of the report, will be abstaining from the vote, since it cannot reconcile itself with the two above-mentioned points.
Mr President, it is good that we are holding this debate at a busy time in the House and that we are not just engaging in legal hair-splitting, for the directives on the coordination of procedures for the award of public contracts are among the most important methods we have for preventing administrative corruption in the most effective way. We are talking about the most hated and most loved directives which have consequences quite far afield in the national administrations in various parts of the EU.During the hearing in the committee, I and many others besides me became concerned that so few cross-border offers are made. I think that the most important thing today, following this debate and reading, is that we obtain directives that operate as well as possible, together with an important follow-up mechanism. There is a lot left to be desired.A lot has already been said about environmental issues, but I think it is important for us to note that, on environmental issues, we must give public authorities the same opportunity we require the most progressive companies to exercise. Why should it not be possible to compete in this area within the public sector, just as it is within the private sector?The Commission says that as much value for money as possible must be obtained. I want to say, however, that, in this context, it is quite often a question of self-governing local authorities which operate in such a way that, if a mistake is made and people are not satisfied, the latter can replace the decision makers. The decision-makers want to see good environmental decisions made by their local authorities. I also think there is something extremely seductive about the argument that, since we have adopted directives on how, for example, we are to promote the use of renewable energy, we should also have procurement directives that encourage such use. It is a familiar argument, but one worth mentioning. I share the assessment which says that the Commission’s approach in the proposal is rigid in relation to prevailing legal practice.There is, however, a difference between the environmental and the ‘social’ issues. The basic conditions we have when it comes to environmental issues are relatively uniform, but we have extremely different directives where social issues are concerned. It is interesting to note that so many of those who have talked about social issues come from Germany. I come from a small EU country where my experience has shown that, precisely with reference to ‘collective agreements’, it has been extremely difficult for Finnish companies to enter the German, and also the Swedish, construction markets. That is why it is important for us not to adopt provisions that are ambiguous. The basic conditions are not uniform when it comes to social issues. We do not know which regulations are to be complied with in this area.I still hope, however, to be able to send an important signal on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal and Democratic Reform Party, to the effect that if the proposals for increased threshold values are adopted, we shall not be able to support the proposals because, in our view, they limit this area of application still more. We have said in many contexts that we cannot support these proposals because the whole purpose and whole issue then become meaningless. That is why I want to appeal to my fellow MEPs concerning this issue.Finally, I wish to point out that the one compromise amendment that has been tabled is not, in the light of many countries’ practice, in actual fact a genuine compromise amendment.
Mr President, Commissioner, the European Commission’s proposal on the reform of the banana sector is negative, unacceptable and disastrous for the agricultural sector in the outermost regions and the ACP countries affected by it, which, of course, supply 40% of the Community market.I have put this so strongly because, if implemented in the terms which have been laid out, it would lead to the sinking of the economies of thousands of families who live off this very special activity on Community islands such as the Canaries, Madeira, Guadeloupe, Martinique and Crete, not forgetting the producing areas of the ACP countries. It would therefore lead to social and economic deterioration in regions which are already least favoured and suffering serious and permanent difficulties with their development, with horrendous difficulties in terms of conversion and which are vulnerable to the uniform and homogenous commercial measures which are taken at international level. In my opinion, the European Commission has given in to such measures, incapable of recognising the regional agricultural reality and diversity of the countries of the Union and the need for a genuine policy of solidarity and cooperation with the ACP countries which, until recently, were colonial territories of countries which now form part of the Union.Therefore, it is a good thing that the Commission is receptive to the report by Mr Dary, who I congratulate, and the amendments tabled, which are intended to achieve the following: correct the imbalances created by globalisation and persuade the Commission to be sensitive to the problems of banana-producing families, not to submit to imports with single customs tariffs and to fight where necessary to maintain, for a reasonable period, its commitment to the citizens and the agricultural organisations involved. These organisations make up one of the most vulnerable sectors of very special regions of the Union and the ACP countries, with the accompanying social, economic and environmental repercussions.For many of us, bananas are a national issue, since they are related to our history and our culture.
Mr President, Commissioner, thank you for your reply. It is extremely important that the programmes in the area under discussion commence immediately at the beginning of 2000. EU aid will have an important impact on the development of regional industry and, for that reason, there should be no interruption between the old programmes and the new. I would still like to check that I understood correctly that these new programmes can start to be implemented, with the risk taken at national level, right from the start of 2000, as long, obviously, as the proper applications have been made beforehand.
Mr President, our relations with Turkey should promote democracy, stability and consistency. The path to those goals is partly by way of social and economic development, and the way to social and economic development is partly by means of foreign investment. The Union’s finance package will be an incentive to further investment in Turkey and, in the process, will also promote and consolidate democracy and human rights. We have seen this strategy succeed in former dictatorships in Southern Europe, we shall see it work in Eastern and Central Europe, and it ought also to work in Turkey. Parliament should support this strategy, and we should, at the same time, insist that, before there can be any question at all about membership negotiations, the Copenhagen criteria should be met as these relate to democracy and human rights. Finally, I would emphasise the need to rebuild the thousands of Kurdish villages razed to the ground. This ought to be an express priority in our policy on Turkey, and we must insist that the Turkish Government too make it a high priority. In the same way, we must insist that the rights of the Kurdish minority are respected, just as the rights of minorities are respected in the countries of the Union and in the other candidate States.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I too wish to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Miguélez Ramos, for this excellent report. She has raised important questions and also taken the proposals of others into account. Our group supports the Commission’s proposal and, furthermore, the rapporteur’s view regarding the creation of a proper legal basis for verifying nomenclature.The issue is also a timely one, as the applicant countries are receiving guidelines for verifying territorial classification in their own countries. With the present NUTS classification system one problem is that classifications by country have shaped themselves according to each country’s own needs and traditions. One cause for criticism is the fact that the land area of regions has not been used as a basis for statistics. Units vary in size and, for example, a low population density or gradual depopulation are overlooked. The aims of the regulation regarding clear rules, comparability and impartiality deserve support. It is also important to determine rules for dealing with amendments and to ensure that the NUTS classification does not change too often.We would ask you to support our group’s amendment, whereby islands and the outermost regions are added to the Subparagraph of Article 3 (4) in order to avoid unnecessary reclassification. Our group stresses the importance of also having flexibility in classification so that administrative factors and, for example, geographical, social and economic circumstances will be taken into consideration as appropriate. Our group supports the rapporteur’s opinion that the Commission should investigate the inclusion of a new level NUTS 4 in the regulation.The goal relating to the comparative classification of territories will be difficult to achieve, and will take time. It is essential, however, that we establish a fair classification, which will help to allocate the right actions to the right areas.
Mr President, unfortunately I have to say that it was I who asked to have this point debated, and for one simple reason. I find it difficult to understand why a temporary – and, I repeat, a temporary – subsidy arrangement must now suddenly be extended.As rapporteur for Parliament’s statement on the original regulation, it is fairly clear to me that I asked the Commission for a guarantee that this arrangement would only be temporary. The Commission assured me of this, as did you too, Mr Monti. For the same reason, the regulation was also limited in time. The regulation contained, moreover, a mousetrap clause whereby the regulation would cease immediately in the event of the dispute with South Korea being resolved.When an expiry date was placed on the regulation, it was precisely because there was no wish to see this arrangement become permanent, regardless of whether or not the dispute with South Korea was resolved. For me, this was a mitigating circumstance, since at no time have I been convinced that South Korea does in actual fact compete on unequal terms.On the contrary, I am afraid that this regulation has only helped to distort competition internally within the EU.I would therefore take the liberty of asking you, Mr Monti, whether the regulation is, in reality, on its way to becoming permanent, and whether you do not see this as a backward step in the fight against direct production subsidies. Could it perhaps be said that a promise has been broken in this case? I am therefore rather tired of the matter this evening.
Mr President, Commission President Mr Prodi described the Stability and Growth Pact last week as 'stupid, like all decisions which are rigid'. Commissioner Lamy is also on record as having described the pact as 'medieval'. Aside from the questionable wisdom of using such strong language, especially to a newspaper from the country which is doing the most damage to what remains of the credibility of the Stability and Growth Pact, one begins to wonder whether this is part of an orchestrated campaign.My question to the Commission President is this: in making your remarks to Le Monde – and you have said that you stand by every word – was it your intention to launch a debate on how to reform the Stability and Growth Pact? If so, that is a debate we welcome, but surely a debate which would better have been conducted some months ago. Had the Commission acted more firmly then, using the licence that we gave you when we invested you, its own authority and that of the Stability and Growth Pact might have suffered less damage.In the current circumstances, no change is clearly not an option, but two principles must guide us. The first is that a well-run economy and a stable currency require taxes and spending to be in balance over the course of the business cycle. The second is that the rules are the same for all countries, large or small. Those principles are at the heart of the Stability and Growth Pact and my group expects them to be the starting point for any reform.If today marks the beginning of a debate on how to improve and strengthen the Pact, what reforms do we need to give it renewed credibility? First of all let us be clear on what we should not do. We should not call into question the 3% limit for deficits as we hit hard economic times. If countries do not pay off their debts, then we will all pay the price in higher interest rates and a weaker currency.Theagrees with Mr Prodi that the Stability and Growth Pact must be applied intelligently. That is why we supported the Commission's decision to allow two more years for countries to return their budgets to balance, because growth had been slower than expected. But we must not forget that postponement to 2006 came with strings attached in the form of a requirement to reduce structural deficits by 0.5% year on year. Thebelieves that a new target for the structural deficit should be included in the Stability and Growth Pact. That would increase pressure on governments to reduce their deficits in their good times so that they can allow borrowing to take the strain when times are bad.On that analysis, any intelligent interpretation would clearly conclude that France's recent budget makes no effort to reduce its structural deficit and is clearly in breach of the Stability and Growth Pact. France must therefore face an early warning. That is what we would like to hear from the Commission today. When the Commission brings forward a proposal for such an early warning, then it will help to restore credibility to the Pact.Theagrees with you, Mr Prodi, that the Stability and Growth Pact needs authority behind it to apply it. That is why we call for the Commission to have the power to issue early warnings against countries which are breaching the rules, whether Finance Ministers agree or not. Only if the Pact has a strong policeman can Member States be forced into taking corrective action while they can afford to.Let us be clear. We will not support any reforms to the Stability and Growth Pact which undermine the basic principles of fiscal responsibility and equality before the law. The end point of reform must be a strengthened Stability and Growth Pact which punishes fiscal largesse and rewards countries which run their budgets responsibly. Judging by the warm welcome which Francis Mer, the French finance minister, gave to your remarks in that interview, I fear that France will feel empowered to flout the rules. If you wish to have the authority to enforce the Stability and Growth Pact, then you must earn that authority by acting promptly against France and any other countries which might be tempted to follow their example.(Applause)
Mr President, an unprecedented wave of repression hit Cuba in March and April 2003 under the pretext of the active role played among political opponents by those representing the interests of the US in Havana. Almost 80 civilians were arrested, tried and given very heavy prison sentences, ranging from six to 28 years.Those arrested were tried very quickly: in a matter of weeks – or even days – in the course of trials not open to the public. The defendants were aided by lawyers not belonging to independent bar associations. The conditions of detention of these people raise serious concerns, insofar as the Cuban authorities are providing hardly any information on the matter.Faced with this situation, we urge the Cuban authorities to free these political prisoners and are anxious to remind them that freedom of expression is a fundamental right. Last month, a delegation from Reporters Without Borders, accompanied by relatives of unfairly condemned prisoners, came to protest and call for the help of the European Parliament in fighting to defend freedoms.I am anxious to stress that Cuba has ratified a number of conventions in the area of human rights and I call on the Cuban authorities to respect their undertakings. Cuba cannot, for all that, use the admittedly disastrous consequences of the embargo, which has lasted for more than 40 years, to claim that some of its nationals, described in particular as mercenaries in the service of foreign powers, have had their human rights systematically violated.
Mr President, Mrs Redondo Jiménez has drawn up an excellent and comprehensive report on the monitoring of forests and environmental interactions, for which I thank her sincerely. The Commission proposal combines two former regulations, one of which concerns the protection of the forests from air pollution and the other forest fire prevention.The Committee on Budgets has delivered an opinion on this matter. In its first opinion it said that the financial statement of the Commission proposal is compatible with the ceiling of heading 3 of the financial perspective and that it will not restrict other action in the period 2003-2006. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, however, raised this financial framework of EUR 52 million to EUR 67 million. This being the case, the Committee on Budgets stated that the framework was compatible with the ceiling of heading 3, if necessary through a reduction of other policies or through recourse to the provisions of the interinstitutional agreement. In practice the Committee on Budgets is warning that reductions in other areas of policy will have to be made or increases in the financial perspective will have to be resorted to, which will be politically very difficult.The opinion of the Committee on Budgets is based on the new Rule 63a in Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, which obliges a committee to adopt a position on the compatibility of proposed legislation with the financial perspective. This is meant as a guiding principle for the plenary debate, which of course is free to take its own decision. This week Rule 63a is being applied not only to this report but also to that by Ulla Sandbæk, for example. It should be noted that if the committee responsible increases the financial framework in question it must once again request an opinion from the Committee on Budgets. Verification of compatibility does on no account constitute a position on whether the proposal by the committee responsible regarding a larger financial framework is appropriate or reasonable. This procedure will hopefully become automatic and natural.The plenary session must have knowledge regarding the compatibility of the financial framework with the financial perspective so that it can take its decision. The procedure increases the responsibility of the committees responsible for the legislative proposal being debated at the time. Activity-based budgeting, which is already established, also has the same objective. Verification of financial compatibility under Rule 63a thus serves, above all, the interests of the committee responsible.
I abstained on the final vote because although I agree with the principle behind this regulation, I cannot agree to the inclusion of Annex 1.This regulation speaks about International Terrorism generally and does not specifically refer to the events of September 11. Therefore it seems totally wrong for this Annex to be included which only refers to individuals and organisations who appear to be solely from the Islamic Community.I am also concerned that the evidence against the people and organisations listed in the Annex has not been seen by European Parliamentarians and therefore we have not been able to decide for ourselves whether those listed are guilty of terrorism or not.
Theparty attaches importance to removing obstacles to the free movement of labour. We have therefore supported this own-initiative report which proposes greater efforts to combat the problems created by differences in social and fiscal systems. However, we are not in favour of producing a directive obliging the Member States to assess the impact of new legislation on frontier workers.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposed European Constitution represents undeniable progress in the process of European construction and I fully agree with the assessment of my colleague from the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, Mr Andrew Duff, in this regard. However, we Catalan Members from Convergencia i Unió will abstain.The reason is that an aspect which is fundamental to us, and I believe also to many European citizens, has not been considered as fully as we had asked for. The peoples of Europe who are identifiable as stateless nations, or in regions with a strong personality and sense of identity, have not been associated in the manner we called for.It is true that the draft Constitution takes up certain principles which we believe to be valid, but it does not include the guarantees we called for in order to associate the regions with full legislative powers with the European institutions, nor does it guarantee that they have access to the Court of Justice, nor does it ensure the inclusion in its linguistic system of languages which are official in the Member States. That means that a language such as Catalan – which will be the eighth most widely-spoken in the enlarged Union – lacks and will lack the Union’s official recognition and there will be no guarantee that it will have it.I would insist that we recognise the positive elements of this Constitution and the inclusion of the principles relating to cultural and linguistic diversity and the principle of subsidiarity for the regions, which we believe to be very important, and a modest degree of progress in terms of the competences of the Committee of the Regions. However, for the reasons I have given, we shall reserve our definitive vote for the result of the Intergovernmental Conference.
Thetoday supported the amendment tabled by Jean Louis Bourlanges of the Group of the, which called for the resolution to be separate from the explanatory statement. By way of explanation, consider the following quotes:'One might conclude that the Commission had decided in some fields to draw a veil over and forget past events. The Commission has sought to distract the public attention from unresolved internal problems in the present by making glib and bombastic promises for the future.''The Commission apparatus which wielded excessive power even under President Santer has now become even more powerful; moreover it is all too often dominated by coteries'.By any standards these comments are excessive, unfair and, in the context of the discharge procedure, wholly unsuitable.On the final vote on the resolution we were faced with three choices today: to vote in favour, to vote against or to abstain. We chose to abstain and this requires explanation. To vote in favour of the Stauner report is to vote for postponement of granting discharge which, all things considered, we believe should be granted now. As we explained in the Budgetary Control Committee, our preference was to vote 'yes' to reform but 'no' to visiting on this Commission the sins of its predecessors.In thewe have been consistently in favour of many of the elements in the Stauner report such as access to documents – it is a duty of the current Commission to provide access to documents. But the political question remains – is this the moment and is this the issue for an apparent public stand off between Parliament and the Prodi Commission? We think not.If we do not vote in favour of the report it is because we want to indicate a preference to do business on reform now rather than later because we believe, on the evidence to date, that this Commission is a reformist Commission.Voting against the report would merely have the effect of sending the report back to the Budgetary Control Committee without a clear expression of what happens next and by what means. We are against such an approach.So we have chosen to abstain. This is a motivated abstention rather than an indifferent one. Our Group preference was to have voted to grant discharge while promoting reform which we accept is also the view of the European Commission. Unfortunately, today's choice did not allow for such an option and so we have chosen to abstain.
Firstly, I want to thank the Council for its answer. Unfortunately it contained very little on the issue of the situation of women in Iraq. Yesterday I was in the position to hear directly from Baghdad a UNICEF representative saying that the Shia have taken over Sadr City, and that means difficulties for women.Mrs Elisabeth Rehn, my predecessor here in Parliament, wrote a very influential report dealing with the situation of women in both war and peace. She pointed out that it will be more difficult for women when there is peace. Unfortunately, especially in Afghanistan, we have a situation where women cannot be sure that they will not be raped. This is a problem in western Afghanistan.Please, Council, what actions are you taking in the light of Mrs Rehn's work? She proposed several actions, including the suggestion that peacekeepers should be very well informed about the rights of women.As for the situation in Iraq, is there any way you could intervene?
Mr President, it is regrettable that despite all the efforts made by rapporteur Maaten, we must conclude that no one is really happy with the developments that now characterise this report. I would like to make three brief comments.My first comment concerns the legal basis. The Court has had a judicial review carried out and states quite explicitly that Article 95 can be the legal basis in some cases, provided certain conditions are met, but also states that Article 95 will not be sufficient in certain cases, for example Article 133 would need to be added where the export ban is concerned. In view of the lack of motivation, I therefore support the amendment tabled by Mrs Palacio Vallelersundi, which calls for us to reject the common position and ask the Commission to submit a new proposal.As for the other comments, I would point out that we ought not to concentrate too much on symbols that do not tackle the root cause of the problem. Imposing higher taxes is not a satisfactory way of discouraging people from doing something. Increasing the space for warnings out of all proportion is not a satisfactory way of achieving the desired goal, i.e. better public health. What is more, I feel this will set a poor example if we want to put warnings on other products at a later stage.
Where human rights in the world are concerned, the European Union should play a leading role. We are, after all, a community of values and a major economic power, but we are unfortunately leaving something to be desired. The European Union is not lacking in good intentions or policy resolutions. There is, however, a yawning gap between rhetoric and reality. The criticism is mainly aimed at the Member States and concerns incoherence and a lack of decisiveness. The Council recognises the shortcomings and has expressly promised improvements, so far with little noticeable result. Political dialogue with third countries is still optional. As long as economic or strategic interests are paramount to human rights for us, one can continue to enter into dialogue until the cows come home, but obviously little will change. Specific goals must be developed and the governments involved must be called to account. Not only sanctions, but also positive incentives, in particular, can help progress on its way. What are the options for improving the dialogues according to the Council and the Commission? The Council is required to consult Parliament and take its opinions on foreign policy into consideration. Unfortunately, though, this is hardly ever done in practice, something that we in this House, of course, find unacceptable. The European Union's role in the world concerns the European citizens and therefore their representatives. Success or failure outside of the European Union has repercussions for many sectors within the EU. According to my research, there was only one single occasion last year when the Council discussed a human rights resolution from this House. Of all our written questions, not one was answered in time. I welcome the fact that the Council is present in this debate, in the person of Mr Antonione. Let this be the start of a new, constructive and intense relationship. I should like to ask the Commission for a schedule for the long term and a systematic impact assessment of the projects. I should also like to ask the Commission to finalise the internal reforms, intensify staff training and finance in a balanced manner the fight against torture and the rehabilitation of its victims. On our part, we as a parliament may be very active in condemning many human rights violations across the world, but we do not give enough consideration to what comes next. We must organise our work in such a way that we continue to monitor the human rights situations discussed and, if necessary, sound the alarm again. My report also asks for particular attention to be given to freedom of religion and conscience, and to the abuse of religions for political ends. Religions are still being suppressed across the globe. Half of the world's population lives in countries where freedom of religion is restricted. Moreover, it is particularly disturbing that human rights should be violated on a massive scale in the name of religion. Almost half of the violent conflicts in the period under scrutiny have a religious dimension. Over the past decade, religions have been experienced more intensely, but not, unfortunately, only in a peaceful manner. In all major world religions, radicalism is on the rise, something mainly attributable to globalisation. The revolution of global contacts does not immediately lead to more understanding and respect between communities of faith. On the contrary, people feel threatened by what they experience as an encroachment on their own standards and values. Radicalism, too, is the result of dissatisfaction among the masses of young people. Irresponsible leaders exploit these feelings of unrest, sometimes with the help of major financial sources and terrorist networks. Clashes among, and within, religions represent a very serious threat to human rights and world peace, with, moreover, the risk that religious confrontations outside of Europe will have repercussions on our own multi-religious societies. Given the seriousness of the threat, it is of the utmost importance for the European Union to chart the problem and to design a strategy. The President of the Commission, Mr Prodi, has already set the tone for this. What is the opinion of the Commission and the Council? What do they think of the specific recommendations I have made in this respect in my report?Finally, two topics that are also very close to my heart.The objectionable caste system. Worldwide, more than 260 million people suffer discrimination, violence and exploitation on a daily basis, purely by reason of their origin. The European Union should make it policy to promote the abolition of these immoral practices.Children. All over the world, children are being exploited, neglected or exposed to violence. More than 300 000 young people are currently taking active part in armed conflicts. Every three seconds, a child dies of malnutrition. In a fully-fledged EU development policy, the child should occupy centre stage.Finally, modesty does not become the European Union as a community of values and economic power where human rights are concerned. We in Europe should have the nerve to stick our necks out; the victims are eagerly waiting for this.(Applause)IN THE CHAIR: MR ONESTAVice-PresidentPresident. – Thank you, Mr van den Bos. The Council will now take the floor.
Mr President, earlier retirement ages, growing life expectancy and the increasing call for early retirement pensions mean of course that many pensions systems have problems remaining financially viable, yet you say, Commissioner, that no special model is being singled out. Is not, however, attention being drawn to the Swedish model, also endorsed by Poland and Latvia, as a way of ensuring future sustainability?Since they will greatly affect pensions sums, does the report go into the significance of the falls in share values that have taken place this summer and that have become still more marked this autumn? This is not a factor we have seen taken into account, yet it means that great caution will need to be exercised where future investments are concerned, given how important falls in share values are to the sustainability of pensions. Have you taken this factor into account during your deliberations?
Mr President, I have to say that I was, as rapporteur, extremely surprised at the 350 amendments in the plenary meeting, whereas we in the committee had an excellent discussion with far fewer amendments than there are now. Nevertheless, I have read the amendments and this evening, we in the relevant committee will see what we can do with them all and make sure that an opinion is brought before Parliament.I am, however, extremely taken aback by the fact that we in the plenary meeting appear to be doing the work now that has not been done in the relevant committee. I should also like to note that there is Europe-wide support for the content of this report. If you feel that there are sections that do not comply with the Rules of Procedure, then I should like to hear from you, in which case we can still, if necessary, withdraw the sections concerned.This is, in principle, an excellent report, at least according to its supporters and detractors in the media world. I therefore fail to understand why we should withdraw it now for reasons of this kind. I should like to have this issue resolved and heard beforehand.
When I tabled this question two months ago I did not know that, coincidentally, there would be a debate this afternoon on immigration and asylum.I would like to thank the President-in-Office for that reply. I do not underestimate the importance of the exchange of best practice on national integration policies and I pay tribute to the measures put in place in Denmark under his stewardship. However, we still do not have this directive. What kind of timetable is there to get this directive agreed? It will give the estimated 20 million people who are legally long-term residents in the European Union the legal framework of rights and obligations that will help to integrate them. Is it not ludicrous to keep calling for mobility of labour to boost economic growth while preventing those 20 million from going to work in another Member State? They are a rather obvious category of people who might be inclined to do that. Is there a timetable, is there a target date for getting this directive agreed?
Madam President, Israel's occupation of the West Bank and Gaza is deeply troubling and I would refer in that context to the shooting and subsequent death of my constituent Tom Hurndall. But the security threat to Israel is also very serious. It is fair to ask why, if the only point of the barrier is to stop suicide bombers, the barrier is not on the 'green line'? Why does it make such incursions into Palestinian territory and create such hardship? I do at least welcome the announcement two days ago that the barrier will be moved closer to the green line. I also welcome Prime Minister Sharon's intention to withdraw from the Gaza settlements.A senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations in Washington, Henry Siegman, wrote recently that support for the cause of Palestinian nationhood does not require denial of Jews to live in their own state. That is precisely my position: two states side by side, with the right of return of Palestinians largely to a state in the West Bank and Gaza. But it must be a viable state.Of course the achievement of this does not rest just on Israeli shoulders. Palestinians have to want peace and avoid terrorism. It is very difficult to contest Israel's right to make itself secure, when Palestinian leaders seem unable to stop suicide bombers. There are desperate people, but I am not convinced that desperation is the only basis for suicide bombers – they are also recruited and exploited.The Palestinian Authority is in crisis, not only because of Israeli hostility – although that is a strong factor – but also because of corruption and criminal lawlessness. I note that 350 activists resigned in protest last weekend from Yasser Arafat's Fatah movement. Perhaps this parallels the case taken by Israeli NGOs to the Israeli Supreme Court in protest against the barrier.The crucial priority is to get back to political negotiations. I am not convinced that the International Court of Justice case helps, because it diverts from that. What would help is grassroots democratic pressure, both in Israel and in Palestine.
Mr President, the events in Bali have underlined that there is a need for a multilateral approach to the fight against terrorism. We now know, of course, that terrorists can strike anywhere in the world, and it has proved true that we must work together across borders and across the Atlantic to stamp out terrorism. We acted rapidly in Europe following 11 September: we can congratulate ourselves on this. We want to live in an area of security, freedom and justice, and the fight against international terrorism is the most important challenge on the foreign and security policy scene. Anyone who has been following the European debate on relations with the USA in recent months will have started to have misgivings about the imbalance and one-sidedness it has shown. We share a strong set of values with the USA. Immediately after the terrorist attacks in September of last year, I am sure many of us saw these as an attack on ourselves and our values. The USA and Europe are united by the fundamental values and principles of democracy and freedom and justice, of human rights and the right of individuals to achieve their potential. We must stand firm on this. Despite our differences of opinion, that which unites us is much stronger than that which divides us. We must exert our influence on the USA within the framework of a multilateral approach to the fight against international terrorism, something which knows no justice.
Mr President, Commissioner, I am not among those who usually thank rapporteurs for no reason, but now there is genuinely cause for saying thank you. It is a special pleasure for me, who have had the privilege of knowing Mrs Aaltonen for a long time, to congratulate her on her first report here in the European Parliament.She is a positive person who has fought many important political battles for young people, women and, now, the handicapped. It is a privilege for the European Parliament to have access to her knowledge, energy and experience. These qualities have really been of value in the preparation of the report.I am also grateful for the fact that Mrs Aaaltonen has taken account of my proposal concerning the issues of genetics. Pentti Tienari, a senior lecturer in experimental neurology in Finland, has researched into these matters, and the fact is, unfortunately, that there is a background of genetic factors. The Vikings are suspected of having spread the disease because it mainly occurs in Orkney and Shetland and also in the area around the River Kyro in Finland. The disease also exists where Germanic peoples have been on the move. I hope that continuing research will also take account of this genetic factor.I also wish to say that the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, which is usually scrupulous about the issue of subsidiarity, will for the most part approve all these amendments. It is said that the Member States must cooperate, and I believe it is important for the Member States to cooperate in order to arrive at binding standards. It may be possible for this to happen outside the structure of the EU, for example through cooperation between ministers in the framework of the Council of Europe. It is there that we should produce binding recommendations on health care. We ought to have a precise division between the EU’s and the Member States’ respective areas of competence.
I would like, on behalf of the Liberal Democrat Group, to warmly congratulate the Finnish Presidency. You have completed a very successful first presidency for Finland but you have done it with a capacity that does enormous credit to the tasks which you addressed.The Summit has produced a result which is worthy of the times. We are at the end of a century, we are contemplating a new millennium and it is a time of review, a time of outlook and a time of new optimism. I believe, in a certain way, the Summit has captured that. I believe that the major decisions that have been made in respect of enlargement, reform and defence show that there is a sustained vitality in our common European vocation. That is an important message and the central message that has emerged from your successful presidency and on that you deserve rich and proper congratulation.I should like to say, in respect of enlargement, that my group, as the others too have expressed here today, is extremely pleased to see that negotiations will open soon with the six additional States of Central and Eastern Europe. It is important that we inject a new political dynamic into the enlargement process. The enlargement process itself is essentially a political process and we must not lose sight of that, notwithstanding the many technical dimensions that attend it.On the question of Turkey: my group welcomes the decision to extend candidate status to Turkey and regards it as positive. We hope that the modernising influences within Turkish politics and society will now take hold of this opportunity and build on it in a positive way. But in welcoming the decision as we do, we insist that those modernising forces must make determined progress towards European norms of respect for human rights and of the relationship between civil and military society; towards the abolition of the death penalty; towards a clear respect for minorities, especially the Kurdish minority in Turkey. The European Union has also made through your presidency a wise choice in insisting that the reform process in the Treaties must be over and operational by the year 2002 so that it will facilitate early accession because it is important to ensure that the reform process should not become the enemy of the enlargement process.The IGC has the opportunity to enhance efficiency and effectiveness and to deepen the democratic character of the European Union. However, we are disappointed that the IGC agenda which has been contemplated at Helsinki has been limited to what has been described as the Amsterdam leftovers. I accept that these are not merely crumbs on the table, they are significant slices of reform but we must grasp this opportunity to do more. My group, through this House, will work with other parliamentarians and with the Commission to try to convince the incoming Portuguese Presidency to be more ambitious in the reform, all the while respecting the timetable.I share the view of other colleagues that it is unfortunate to describe the role that this House can play as one merely of observer. I welcome the fact that we will participate but we participate as equals and not merely as observers.On the question of defence, we warmly welcome the establishment of the rapid reaction force and its significant and necessary progress – Kosovo has taught us dearly the need for that. My group, however, again wishes to stress the importance that this should be seen in the context of a strong Atlantic Alliance. We must not give any succour to the forces in US politics who show a tendency towards isolationism, many of whose voices are now raised in the current US Presidential election.In this regard, one suggestion is that we contemplate the establishment of a political and security committee and military committee. Could the Defence Minister of the incoming Presidency come to this House at an early date and make a statement to us? We need to clarify a number of things such as the role of EU non-NATO members in such a force and the role of non-EU NATO members in respect of such a force if they wish to participate. This and other issues should have a democratic airing and this is the place to do so at a European level.A final comment: I could not sit down without mentioning our deep concern about Chechnya. We welcome the fact that this is occupying the attention of Helsinki. We would urge the IMF also to act vigorously in this regard because, although each State has a right to defend itself against terrorism, what we observe in Chechnya is grossly disproportionate to the scale of the perceived threat and we have to deplore and condemn it at every opportunity.
Madam President, I would like to take the floor at the beginning of the topical debate, because, in accordance with Rule 146 of the Rules of Procedure, this is the right time to do this in my opinion. Indeed, the next item on the agenda is a resolution on Euro 2000 and hooligans. And although we are certainly in favour of discussing this matter, there are elements in this resolution which are still under investigation by the legal authorities in the Netherlands. In our view, therefore, it would be premature at this stage to pass judgement on this legal investigation. I would therefore move, based on Rule 146, to adjourn the debate on this resolution until our part-session in September. This Rule also stipulates that such a motion shall be put to the vote immediately.
Mr President, I should like to recommend to the House that we split this vote in two and, in respect of the wishes of the House, that we delete the first half of the paragraph and then vote on the second half. I believe that will meet all Members' concerns.
Mr President, I share the view of Mrs Maes.(FR) I shall continue in French in order to show that indeed we must have a common stance.What is clear is that Zimbabwe is in chaos. Human rights there are being trampled underfoot. Do we now need to erect a cordon sanitaire, which effectively means there will be no dialogue? No. We do need a cordon sanitaire but one which clearly expresses what we want to achieve when we meet with these interlocutors. I would like to say to the last speaker that there was no champagne in Brussels. There was a reminder of resoluteness and there was a reminder of values, because if we want to safeguard the interests of the people of Zimbabwe, we must continue to get our position across to everyone, including the authorities.Therefore, what I am asking is that the amendment we have tabled and which highlights the fact that we must invoke the law each time and we must specify what actually the scope of human rights is. This is an important element. So, let us not condemn those who defend this point of view, but let us call on the entire European Community – be it the Commission, the European Parliament or the Member States – to reiterate just how important human rights, and the law itself, are in this very sensitive area. That is why I sincerely hope that the European Parliament will vote in favour of the amendment we have tabled.
Mr President, Commissioner, I, for my part, would also like to express my sincere thanks to the rapporteur and the Commission for preparing this matter for debate. The proposals have an aim worthy of support: environmental diversity is something that is important to all of us. I would, however, like to raise two matters in this parliamentary report.Firstly, in item eight the matter of forests is raised, mentioning the desire to see a bureaucratic, centralised monitoring system for the EU based on certification for forests and all living organisms in them. The use of forests in the Member States would be controlled by the EU by means of action plans. At this point we must remember that forestry matters in the EU are covered by the principle of subsidiarity and there is no cause to extend Brussels’ control in these matters unless there are special reasons for doing so. Furthermore, all those engaged in forestry matters agree that certification should work on a voluntary basis, and on no account should it be managed by the EU.Secondly, in item 44 it is proposed that all support payments for agricultural production should be replaced with environment-based aid. We have to remember, however, the situation regarding world trade which we have today. If production aid were not paid there would no longer be any agriculture on the present scale in the EU in the future. How would things stand regarding biodiversity then? In certain regions of the EU, production aid is, relatively speaking, even more important than in central Europe. For example, in my country the major problems are not really connected with the state of the environment or biodiversity, but the fact that production must in general be supported, production costs being as high as they are. For farmers it is a waste of time to talk about additional environmental action, as all production in our country is in practice organic.I propose that point 44 should be deleted from the text. The same goes for the last part of item 42, where agri-environmental action would be solely geared towards protecting endangered species. No self-respecting EU institution should record something like this in the resolutions.
Mr President, travelling across the Union can sometimes seem like travelling in a time machine. Starting off in Britain, which still has a poor recycling record, the WEEE Directive looks like the future. But when you visit Denmark or the Netherlands where electrical and electronic waste is routinely collected, you see that the Commission directive is really only an attempt to harmonise and build on the best practice of the present. It is only those of us who still live in the past, Mr Bowe, who find it challenging and ambitious. It certainly will play a major part in waste-management policy and that is for the good. The Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party wants to encourage recycling, good product design, best-use resources and reduce pollution. We strongly support the principle of producer responsibility.There is a lot still to be agreed between Parliament and the Council through the conciliation process and the fact that we are going to be engaged in lengthy discussion is a tribute to the rapporteur, who has done so much to bring all the political parties in this House together so that we are united and will almost certainly secure qualified majority voting on many amendments tomorrow.In particular I welcome his latest compromise proposal on paying for the costs of dealing with orphan waste. I do not believe that large legitimate manufacturers should have to pay the costs created by other companies, whether they be free-riders or small organisations. I am pleased that encouragement is now being given to re-use materials where environmentally appropriate, and I thank my colleagues across the House for the support they have given me in opposing the development of these so-called clever chips.My words may fall on some deaf ears here but I would ask Members to consider giving their support to a couple of amendments I have tabled. Amendment No 82 attempts to address the concern of cable manufacturers by making clear that financial responsibility for WEEE rests with the producer of the finished equipment and not with individual component manufacturers. I thought we were all agreed on that point.Amendment No 71 represents a plea for help for plastic recyclers. I conclude by saying with a certain mischievous glee, as someone who has campaigned for better recycling in my own country for 30 years, that I rather hope that this directive puts a bomb under my own local authorities and recalcitrant government.
Mr President, referral to the Court is not something that we would have chosen. The Commission promised to consult us under Article 300 with the power of assent. The Commission has not fulfilled that promise and, therefore, we have had to use a very blunt instrument to try to maintain democracy within this Union.***
Mr President, Commissioner Patten, the recent peace talks begun in the USA between Israel and Syria mark a turning point in the history of the Middle East. It has taken fifty years to reach this point, which will involve some particularly difficult negotiations. There will be no meeting today in Shepherdstown but we must hope, as Mr Patten said just now, that this postponement of the negotiations due to Syrian requirements will only represent one more step on the road to a peace agreement which will change the face of the Middle East.This hope is contained in our motion for a resolution. We hope for a fair and balanced agreement based on respect for sovereignties and the right to live securely within safe and recognised borders. All the foreign troops, including therefore the Syrian forces, must withdraw from Lebanon in accordance with Resolution 520 of the United Nations Security Council.Dare we hope for an Israeli withdrawal from South Lebanon by July 2000, the date promised by Ehud Barak? Dare we hope for a dual peace agreement between Israel and its neighbours to the north? We really hope and believe so. Never have the parties been so determined.One fundamental point to be stressed is the balance which must be expressed in the message from Europe and which must exist between the people. There must also be a political balance between the participants in the negotiations. Following the attack in Hadera on Monday, we must repeat our condemnation of any form of terrorism. In terms of balance, or should I say imbalance, I must add that it is to be regretted that Europe is still playing a minor political role in resolving this conflict.At midday, Mr Gama referred to the financial and commercial support provided by Europe to the region. Despite everything, we are being forced to recognise that the resumption of the peace process is largely due to the work of Washington. Like other Arab countries before them, the Syrians chose the Americans to sponsor the negotiations. This was the choice also made by Israel where Europe suffers from a partisan public image, and this is a fact, not a judgement. This is now the opportunity to reiterate to Mr Patten, Mr Solana and Mr Moratinos how much we are relying on their efforts to include Europe in the search for a peaceful solution to the conflict. Although it is difficult for Europe to speak with one voice about the peace process, it can and must speak in the same spirit of confidence and solidarity.
Mr President, this motion celebrates the good news, the successful ending of the Sharm el-Sheikh negotiations and the agreement of safe passage for Palestinian goods, vehicles and people. But the safe passage is physically just a narrow corridor through which freedom of movement, a central tenet of European Union philosophy, is hedged about with many necessary security constrictions. May these soon ease as confidence builds up.Free trade also needs fair pricing in order for the producer and the seller to make due profit, as well as honest labelling of product origins and processes to satisfy the customers’ requirements on health and choice. Both these key free trade elements have been absent in part or in whole from Palestinian export trade, particularly in textiles and in agricultural products. Conflict has dominated the trade agenda too.This motion calls for an end to all trade obstructions. Only then can three close neighbours – Israel, Palestine and Jordan – build real prosperity for all their peoples. Yes, there are risks involved, but what a prize to win. I commend this motion to Parliament.
Mr President, a friend who used to work for a leading wildlife conservation NGO tells me that it was a depressing experience each morning to read her e-mails detailing the loss of habitats and new threats to the survival of species across the world. I can understand that. So it is a pleasure to acknowledge that not every environmental problem is beyond resolution and that, in some instances as least, we are capable of turning the tide. Such is the case with air pollution. The evidence is that now, at least in some cities and towns across Europe, the air we breathe is perhaps purer than at any time since the beginning of the Industrial Revolution. Problems remain. It is claimed that air pollution still contributes to more premature deaths than traffic accidents, but progress is being made.Ground-level ozone is a pollutant which still severely affects the health of many of our citizens. It contributes to problems of asthma in children – now said to affect as many as one in ten children in the United Kingdom alone – and to breathing difficulties in the elderly. In severe circumstances people die. Government studies in my country suggest that ozone may lead to the premature death of 12 500 people each year. We are all well aware of the problems experienced in some cities in Europe, such as Athens, where the problem is intensified by particular climatic conditions. Pollution has further economic consequences, by reducing crop yields and damaging trees.European legislation plays an increasing role in setting tighter standards and curbing pollution. Nothing better illustrates this than the need for concerted action on ozone. It is created by a chemical reaction between sunlight and oxides of nitrogen and volatile organic compounds derived mostly from vehicle emissions and petrol distribution. It is often formed miles from the source of the problem. So it is a classic trans-boundary pollutant requiring trans-boundary action at European level.The national emissions ceiling directive will provide the framework for reductions in key air pollutants. This directive concerns the action which Member States should take locally to deal with the particular problem of ozone. At first reading I welcomed the Commission's proposals to set a target value encouraging Member States not to permit ozone to exceed the World Health Organisation's guidelines of more than 20 days a year; to alert the public if local health risks are high; and to compare the performance of different countries. But I argued that the proposals were not demanding enough. Parliament has made a number of changes and, of the 19 amendments we agreed on, the Council has accepted ten of the minor ones in full and another four in part. The Council has also decided that it wants the target for the maximum number of exceedances to be 25 rather than 20 days. This does not sound too bad a compromise. Perhaps I am just a bit cynical in suggesting that it is too easy for ministers to agree tough targets which are not legally binding. Parliament should be taking steps now to ensure that the final shape of the legislation places firm obligations on Member States to achieve the objectives they claim they want to achieve.I want Member States to be required to meet the target, save where it is physically impossible for them to do so. I want them to work towards a date by which the long-term objective of never having ozone levels exceeding WHO guidelines will be achieved. I want them quickly to implement short-term action plans if ozone levels exceed double the WHO recommendations, and I want them to provide the Commission with information of a standard which enables comparison to be made between the performance of different Member States, so that the public can determine which countries are making a real effort and which are not.In saying this, I recognise the need to take into account the fact that one country may not be responsible for the pollution which affects it. I also understand that meteorological conditions vary. The north west of England, for example, may generate more traffic fumes than many places elsewhere in Europe but, because we are not blessed with too much sunlight, ozone is less of a problem to us than it may be in Spain.I do not wish, in particular, to place too onerous a burden upon Mediterranean countries. But Parliament needs to adopt a strong position now, in order that the final agreement we reach with the Council reflects the need for Member States to take some real action.I thank colleagues in other parties for working with me to try and ensure that Parliament's position commands a large majority. I thank Parliament's staff and, in particular, my assistant, Vikki Phillips, who has made a very considerable contribution to this process over the past year.We have an opportunity to make a contribution to the process of reducing pollution and cleaning the air we breathe. I hope Parliament will give its support to the proposals in this report and the compromises agreed between the political parties, and that we play our part in achieving what could be another success story for the European environment.(Applause)
Mr President, Commissioner, it was said earlier this evening in this House that it is now a question of having to devise rules that remove the risks of corruption, nepotism and the abuse of power. It is therefore important that we bring about the simplification intended in the Commission’s proposal. I am afraid, however, that we may be in danger of failing in our task of ensuring that this is what happens, because the majority of the committee have voted in favour of a lot of restrictions that may cost European taxpayers dearly.The Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party believes that there are no reasons for raising the threshold values. As has been said on a number of occasions, it would contravene our international obligations. Nor are we convinced by the argument for raising the threshold values on the grounds that there are now so few cross-border tenders. On the contrary, we may find ourselves with more cross-border procurement as a result of simplifying the directive, applying the simplified procedure and having a larger number of electronic tenders.The  Group is concerned that Parliament’s amendments, for example Amendment No 20, might reduce transparency on the subject of procurement in most Member States. It is important, once a contract has been concluded, for competitors to be able to check that the procedure is being carried out correctly. Amendment No 24 must therefore be rejected. The eagerness with which the other political groups have endorsed Amendment No 20, aimed at increasing secrecy, sometimes leads me to wonder whether we are all aware of what we have decided when it comes to access to EU documents.The  Group, which is otherwise fairly satisfied with the common position, is, however, anxious that the Council’s position would be less effective than current legal practice in providing opportunities for taking account of environmental aspects. In our view, a procuring authority should be able to go beyond its brief, as narrowly conceived, and take account both of the value to the environment of what is being purchased and of the method by which it is produced. We have therefore again tabled an amendment to Article 53 that, at first reading, was supported by almost the whole of the Chamber. We also wish to reject those amendments by the committee that would shape the directive in such a way as to impede the reorganisation and modernisation of public administration.We are also unhappy about the restrictions that the majority of Parliament have wanted to see imposed upon electronic tenders, involving even stricter regulations than those laid down in the electronic signatures directive. I am amazed at my fellow MEPs’ distrust of electronic signatures, but confidence in fax messages, which often lead to information leaking out.The  Group wants us, then, to make efforts in the direction of simplification and modernisation. We therefore hope that we shall vote wisely on these matters.
The Burmese generals are really doing everything they can to remain in power. Opponents are being silenced. The opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi has spent half of the past 14 years under house arrest. She has now been arrested again, allegedly for her own safety. The junta is completely paranoid and controls the administration, justice, the economy and the private lives of the Burmese people. There is absolutely no democracy whatsoever, and the people are being kept ignorant. Anyone who has had an education is distrusted. Every time there is a student demonstration the government closes the university. The country has been in crisis for the past 14 years, and there is a shortage of everything except corruption, which is flourishing. The regime practices systematic discrimination against the Rohingya people. There is absolutely no sign of any rapprochement between the government and the opposition.In order to pull the wool over the eyes of the West, cosmetic steps are taken every now and again, such as the visit of the UN envoy Razali. Burma has one of the most corrupt regimes in the world. The international community has tolerated this for much too long. The more than 1 000 political prisoners must be released immediately, and all repressive measures must be rescinded. The European Union must make Burma an important point on the agenda of the ASEAN conference in Bali. As long as pressure from neighbouring countries remains minimal, the generals will be in no hurry to pack their bags. The European Union must also further intensify its sanctions policy. We must put a complete stop to business contact, which also means no investment. There is a risk that the resoluteness of the generals will result in a feeling that there is actually nothing we can do, but we owe it to the patient and extremely tenacious Aung San Suu Kyi and the poor population of Burma to do everything we can to drive the generals from power.
Mr President, those of us who survived the conciliation procedure for the water framework directive must be delighted that here we have an issue which is entirely clear-cut and easily understandable. The first issue is that we want equal and effective enforcement of environmental legislation across the European Union and we must all agree to that principle.The question obviously is why we have not had that before. Why have the Commissioner's predecessors not brought forward proposals before now and why are the proposals now introduced so miserably weak? There is also a question for Member States. What have they been doing signing up to environmental legislation if in reality they do not have the means to check properly that it has been carried out and have no intention of ensuring that it is properly enforced?I have chemical companies in my constituency in the north-west of England. Some of them, I am sorry to say, discharge polluting materials into air and water. They get inspected. Action is taken. They are forced to clean up their act. They pay the price for that. But they are competing with chemical companies elsewhere in this European Union which are not having to carry out those checks, which are not having to pay the price and they are not able to compete therefore on a level playing field. It is simply unfair.The second issue is the clear conflict here between the Parliament and the Council. Any student who wants to understand conciliation procedure or codecision procedure has a nice straightforward case study here. We have codecision powers but we have the threat from the Council that if we do not fall into line then they will abandon the whole legislation. Well, they might as well, as Mrs Jackson has said.The message for the French Presidency is that we want tangible progress. We do not want to see this abandoned. There is room for compromise, presumably over the implementation date. All the institutions in the European Union want the laws enforced properly. It is time to give these warm but rather woolly sentiments some real meaning and action.
Regarding the proposal for a Council regulation (EC) No 1251/1999 establishing a support system for producers of certain arable crops to include flax and hemp grown for fibre, we would state the following. As liberals, we believe that agricultural policy should be adjusted to the market and de-bureaucratised. If Parliament is serious about eastward enlargement, there must be a drive extensively to cut back on the costs of agriculture. All direct forms of support for agricultural production ought gradually to be abolished.- Bösch report (A5-0116/2000)
Madam President, on a point of order. The BBC this morning reported that a British Member of this House, holding a senior position within his delegation, continues to offer strategic advice to private clients, but does not state in the Register of Interests who these clients are. The people of Europe have a right to expect their representatives to keep the public interest separate from private profit, but they can only be sure that this is being done in all cases if the information is both publicly available and easily accessible.Madam President, since these matters are currently being considered by the Quaestors, may I ask you to use your influence both to ensure that the Register of Interests is brought up to date and modified to cover instances of this kind and, above all, to ensure that the Register is not only available for inspection by this House, but is also published on the Internet?
Madam President, our former Belgian Socialist colleague, Mr De Coene, and I led the group of 30 MEPs who took the case to the High Court in Paris last year. The tribunal there found in our favour. They found that the European law had been broken by the CFO. They dismissed our case on a technicality, finding that we were inadmissible as litigants. But we took action because we were not convinced that the European Commission was standing up for the rights of the European citizen. As a result of our action, we were assured by Commissioner Van Miert that the Commission would prosecute this to the very end. That action, as Mr Perry has pointed out, cost us individually more than EUR 1000 each. Members of this House are sick at the fine that has been imposed by the European Commission on the CFO. I can well imagine why Commissioner Van Miert did not want to come here personally to make this statement today.This is not the first time that the World Cup organisers have rigged the sales of tickets against the ordinary football fan. But it is the first time that they have trumpeted their tournament as the first billion-dollar World Cup. They have made millions out of discriminatory sales arrangements. If the Commission had pursued this abuse of Article 82 as rigorously as it pursues abuses in other areas of industry then this fine would have been not £600 but £6m or more.The Commissioner tells us that the interests of consumers were harmed but that this had no serious effect on the market. I suggest to the Commissioner that it has a very serious effect on the European Union's reputation. He tells us that there was nothing to guide the CFO. What about the fine that the Commission imposed on the Italian organisers of the World Cup in 1990, a fine which was, in fact, larger than the fine that is imposed on the CFO this year? What about the exchange of correspondence between the CFO and the European Commission which started the previous July?Unlike Mr Ford, who represents the Southwest but supports Manchester City, I do not support any football club, but I do support the right of the European citizen to be protected from discriminatory practices and the abuse of a dominant market position. I support the European Union in developing its role to protect those citizens. To me, this fine sends to the European citizen the message that Europe is on the side of big business and not on the side of the ordinary man or woman in the street.In my view, this is a sad-and-sorry ending to a sad-and-sorry Commission. I hope that our new Commissioners, when they have been approved in September, will have rather more backbone in taking up this kind of case on behalf of the people of Europe.(Applause)
Mr President, my group is broadly supportive of Mrs van den Burg's efforts on her report. Therefore, if she will excuse me, I shall concentrate on the Lamfalussy procedure extension. This group is in favour of extending the Lamfalussy procedure to banking and insurance. You have only to see the detail of the decisions being taken in Basle on banks' capital adequacy to realise that it would be a nonsense to incorporate them into primary legislation. Our American counterparts have already allowed the introduction of all the Basle decisions by secondary legislation and to delay unnecessarily would put European banks at a competitive disadvantage.However, the Council of Ministers sometimes seems to have forgotten two important things. First, that Parliament is fully committed to the democratic oversight of committees that establish implementing legislation. Secondly, that the deal on applying Lamfalussy committees to the securities market was a strictly temporary measure, which is why there are four-year 'sunset clauses' agreed by the Council in both the prospectus and the market abuse directives. Temporary means temporary. If our democratic role in monitoring is to be effective, Article 202 of the Treaty must reflect codecision over implementing committees, otherwise there will be always be a bias in this House against the delegation of powers that are necessary to deal with some extremely technical matters.For the sake of good governance and democratic oversight, the Member States should commit themselves – whether in a Council declaration or elsewhere – to a revision of Article 202, which not only introduces equivalent powers for Parliament and for the Council but also ensures there is proper oversight by this House and by the Council. Then we can proceed to extend Lamfalussy, again on a temporary basis.
Mr President, I would like to begin by extending my sincere thanks to the President and the Members of the Court of Auditors for their Annual Report, which was, as ever, extremely useful. The Annual Report is extremely critical and the statement of assurance has again been denied. Nothing new there, for this has been the case for years now.However, the last elections left us in no doubt as to the fact that the public has had enough of stories about the European finances being in a shambles. That is why it is of the utmost importance that this report at last be taken seriously. The Court of Auditors report must not be an annual media spectacle that ends up in a cupboard afterwards. This represents a real opportunity to improve Europe’s financial management. As President Karlsson has already said: all institutions must play their part in these improvements, and this should be done in the following way.Firstly, the Member States really must take responsibility now. Fraud in Europe is still equated with fraud in Brussels. But for all that, more than 80% of the money is spent by the Member States. National control mechanisms can and must do better. Above all though, we must foster the notion that one should spend European money just as wisely as national money.We would ask the Commission to show that it is in earnest where the promised reforms are concerned. Managers must also be brought to account in respect of their financial management abilities. Every year, DGs must set out the steps they have taken to address any criticisms raised by the Court of Auditors.The Court of Auditors itself could make its Annual Report more useful still by making two additions. Firstly, it could include statistical data, which would make sticking points even more visible, and secondly, it could refer back to set topics at regular intervals so as to enable us to see if there have been any improvements.Of course the European Parliament must keep its finger on the pulse of reform, but above all, this Parliament must set a good example and, at long last, adopt a statute.European money is public money. In order to win back the citizens’ trust, all institutions must demonstrate that they are serious about fighting and preventing fraud. This is the only way that we will be able to win back their trust.
Mr President, Commissioner, I too want to thank Mr Glante, on behalf of my party, for producing a very creditable report. He has done a lot of work to promote this idea, listened to the various parties and achieved a good end result. I heartily support cogeneration, which is an environmental and energy policy instrument for increasing energy efficiency and improving the security of energy supplies. As Mr Paasilinna just said, we in Finland have good things to say about cogeneration.Producing a directive to apply to the Union as a whole is a difficult process, because the directive is a technically demanding one and circumstances and practices vary greatly between the Member States. Our group supports the compromises drafted by the rapporteur and hopes the directive will now speedily move forward. In my opinion it is important that this issue should be taken forward, albeit one step at a time.The EU is very dependent on imports of energy. This creates uncertainty, and rising import ratios increase the risk of supplies being interrupted. It is essential to increase the share of cogeneration. This directive can create a framework for increased cogeneration. The Member States must jointly approve the defined criteria whereby binding targets may be achieved. Experience has shown that if targets are not binding on Member States, progress is slow.The potential for cogeneration can be optimised when the various operators are aware of the opportunities that are available to exploit the technology and find compatible systems. Accordingly, it is particularly important that there is cooperation between different operators and that they can exchange information on good practices.
Mr President, firstly I should like to thank all those who have spoken, and especially those who agreed with the report. I also strongly congratulate Commissioner Vitorino for successfully brokering an agreement in his working group on the technical and semantic problems which have confronted some representatives of Member States. On the question of the preamble, I quite agree and I will accept Amendment 7.To my Eurosceptic friends, I say that this is not some subversive plot. The Charter carries great authority and legitimacy. What it lacks is clarity and legal certainty. It is precisely to ensure that we can improve the position as regards certainty and clarity that we are seeking its incorporation. We are not being shamefully silent, as Mr Crowley said, on the impact on national law. The charter primarily concerns the competences of the European Union and the powers of the Union authorities. Finally, can I say that Lord Stockton and I find ourselves in appropriate political parties in Great Britain.
Mr President, the bilateral agreements between the European Union and Switzerland are analogous to the multilateral agreement arrangements that have come into effect within the framework of the European Economic Area. It is the opinion of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party that the European Parliament for its own part should support their adoption. Switzerland’s position illustrates the curious nature of Europe’s present arrangements for integration, and the need to aim to change them, especially now that the EU is expanding throughout the whole of Europe. The merging Europe has organised itself into a series of concentric rings, at the core of which has been the founder members of the European Union. First there was the Council of Europe at Strasbourg, which divided in two when France, Germany, Italy and the Benelux Countries formed the European Coal and Steel Community. The attempt to form a political and defence community came to nothing, but the European Community was created. The Outer Seven, as opposed to the Six, formed the European Free Trade Association, EFTA.The expansion of the Six into a Community of, in the first instance, eight, and then twelve, went relatively smoothly. Since these instances of enlargement, a debate has begun on differentiated integration. At the end of the 1980s, a plan was drafted in the European Commission whereby the then European Community would consolidate as a federation and the other countries of Europe would join the Single Market via the European Economic Area arrangements. The first Agreement on the European Economic Area was offered to the EFTA countries. It was then that concentric circles were being spoken of for the first time. The EEA Agreement was established, although for Austria, Sweden and Finland it turned out to be a short-lived arrangement. EEA membership was rejected in a Swiss referendum. So the only countries remaining in the EEA were Iceland, Norway and Liechtenstein. Bilateral agreements began to be drawn up for Switzerland.Negotiations are now under way regarding the future accession of twelve countries to the European Union. It is strange that neither Switzerland nor any of the EEA countries are among them, although they would be the best suited of all to join. There is a simple reason for this, however. They do not want to join the present Union, nor that of the foreseeable future. Now that the Union is growing fast, it is reasonable that it should be subject to internal differentiation. Just as Jacques Delors, Valery Giscard d'Estaing and Helmut Schmidt, among others, recently proposed, the core countries of Europe should go further along the road towards integration than the others, while the rest of the Union could develop as a confederation of independent states and differentiate. In this way, we could ease and speed up accession for the countries of Eastern Europe and this would also make membership possible for Iceland, Norway, Liechtenstein and even Switzerland.
Mr President, female genital mutilation is a terrible act of extreme violation which causes serious physical and mental damage and a lifetime of suffering. The mortality rate among those who are subjected to this practice is high. There is a need for really vigorous efforts to combat this abomination, this terrible act, wherever it occurs.This is also a European problem, and it is important to ensure that knowledge, research and documentation on female genital mutilation is improved in Europe. We need cooperation in order to find common strategies to ensure that this operation, which is not prescribed by any religion, can be abolished. Several Members have highlighted the need to cooperate with religious leaders.Those women already circumcised need care and rehabilitation, and we must therefore put our faith in more knowledgeable midwives, social workers and teachers. Mrs Theorin referred to what we in Sweden call summer holiday circumcision, which is when girls are taken abroad to be circumcised. In my country this is forbidden, and so it is only natural for the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party to support the proposals to introduce this ban everywhere. This would provide a clear signal that female genital mutilation is illegal at home and illegal abroad and that such mutilation constitutes a violation of human rights.
Mr President, Mrs Hassi, Commissioner, the issue under discussion concerns the outcome of the fifth conference on the Kyoto Protocol in Bonn. As clearly stated in our motion for a resolution, the results of the Kyoto Protocol are unsatisfactory on several accounts. Climate change is continuing, for which reason further strict measures for reducing greenhouse gases must be taken by 2010. It is already seven years since the Earth Summit in Rio where firm commitments were made without any really positive consequences having resulted to date. Regrettably, there is still a major element missing from this motion. This is the people. We should not forget that, regardless of the measures which may be taken by individual Member States or the European Union as a whole, it is the people as consumers who, through their habits and behaviour, will promote change and impose this on decision makers. There is therefore a real urgency for wide-ranging measures to now be adopted in order to involve the people in decision making on this subject. In this way, they will feel more responsible for the climate change phenomenon. This could be achieved, for example, through wider information campaigns bringing pressure to bear on people’s behaviour. Our resolution on the Kyoto Protocol, adopted in October, was clearly heading in this direction by demanding a coordinated strategy for informing the public in a clear, understandable and accessible manner. I am thinking, for example, of certain aerosols which we use extensively in our daily life. It is through these concrete and tangible measures that Europe will enter our homes and our habits.Finally, I must comment on the subject of a CO2/energy tax which the motion mentions in paragraph 14. Although I am not against the principle of taxing polluting emissions, I do believe that these measures must respect two principles. On the one hand they must try to guarantee tax neutrality and, on the other, they must cover the whole of the industrialised world, or at least the OECD, so that ecological dumping or competition distortions do not arise.Climate change is not inevitable, yet it is only by involving the main actors – people and industry – and by making them responsible that we will overcome the obstacles.
Mr President, Commissioner, I want to say that I am speaking as much as a Finn as in my capacity as a representative of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party. I would thank the rapporteur and the draftsperson of the opinion for the frank, direct and sincere words they have written about Finland’s initiative.The report states that the initiative was poorly planned, that it contains no justification section, that it was prepared without organisations such as ECRE or UNHCR being consulted and that the relationship between the principles of readmission between the Member States and the principles of readmission to third countries is not made clear. Furthermore, the report states that there is a lack of strategic vision, something which the rapporteur also said. No distinction is made between those who do not fulfil and those who no longer fulfil the conditions in force for residence here. It is all too reminiscent of Austria’s initiative on that famous first day of Austria’s Presidency.There are also no procedural safeguards, which does not surprise me because, less than two months ago, the same Ministry of the Interior which is behind the present initiative proposed that Finnish immigration law be changed to include rapid repatriation. My party, the Swedish People’s Party, voted against this initiative, really for the same reasons that Finland’s constitutional committee had when it considered that the same proposal was unconstitutional because, in the case of rapid repatriation, no one has the right to be heard.It would be wisest, therefore, if Finland were to comply with Parliament’s proposal and withdraw the proposal, as both the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market and the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs propose. I would point out that, of all the members of the Committees, only two supported this initiative. I regret that the Council’s and Parliament’s time has been used in this way. I think, like Mrs Berger said, that it could have been used for other things, for example, purely administrative procedures. The issue of women as asylum seekers might also have been reflected upon, because we need to look at the Tampere decision in its entirety with a view to improving the asylum process. I would emphasise that I am speaking as a Finn and as a representative of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, for the second time within the space of four months, we find ourselves debating the restructuring of companies in Europe. This is – as it was the first time round – sparked off by the reorganisation of large companies, which is linked to a drop in employment.I would like to make it quite clear that theis against any political interference in companies, in terms of both finance and management. Our task is to draft legislation and to monitor to ensure that it is observed. It appears that Goodyear in Italy received Italian and European subsidies to the tune of approximately EUR 40 million. The company went under despite this. This goes to show that jobs cannot be bought. The market is a law unto itself.As such, state aid costs the government twice: first in subsidies and then in unemployment benefit. Surely this cannot be the role of your, my and the citizens’ tax money? All this, of course, does not mean that our Group does not share the concern of the Italian Members regarding the effects of the closure on the region concerned.My Group is also opposed in principle to the naming of specific companies in this resolution, for two reasons: firstly because this creates selective responsibility. A company is pilloried one day and not the next. Why should this be the case? Michelin caused a great stir. But I did not hear a squeak when Nissan and IBM were discussed, where, similarly, a great number of European employees were involved. Secondly, this is not fair towards employees of other companies where reorganisations also take place and where it hurts too.My Group has signed a joint resolution with EPP and UEN, in which, however, we made it clear right from the outset that we are against the naming of company names.This is why thewill vote against paragraph 8 and the second section of paragraph 9. If these paragraphs are nonetheless adopted, my Group will abstain from the final vote. I do hope that this will not be necessary.
Mr President, on a point of order, there was no announcement just now, but as the written declaration on the rights of deaf-blind people has reached the required number of signatures, namely, 320, I would just like to thank everyone here for signing that resolution, of which I was co-author. It is great news for deaf-blind people. We are not asking for more rights for deaf-blind people in the European Union, but for the same rights as other European citizens have.
Madam President, happy birthday Dalai Lama! But I am not sure that today is such a happy day for him, because after all, the most valuable contribution which the EU can make to the world is standing up for human rights and democracy, and these are still being flouted in Tibet. In the light of this, I would like to make the following observations.First of all, why is it that there is still no real dialogue at official level between the Chinese Government and the Tibetan Government in exile? All manner of so-called indirect contacts have led to nothing. The European Parliament should adopt a harder line in order to support the principle of non-violence. This is why this resolution is necessary.Secondly, how can a renowned institution such as the World Bank be on the brink of financing a Chinese programme which is tantamount to a common or garden colonisation of Tibet? This has to be prevented and hence this resolution.Thirdly, how can the European Union possibly be one to let economic interests prevail in its relations with China? Surely we cannot offer the Tibetan population attention only when it suits us?In sum, Madam President, I would urge you to ensure that a real dialogue is established according to the Dalai Lama’s five-point peace plan; it will then be a happy day for Tibet’s entire population.
Mr President, as draftsperson of the opinion – on the Budget – of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, I should like to say that we have chosen not to issue an opinion on the 2003 Budget because our viewpoints are very well covered by the general observations in Mr Färm’s excellent report. I should nonetheless like, however, to highlight two points: first of all, the failure – already mentioned many times today – to implement the budget for the structural funds. The same problem exists in connection with the Social Fund and, because there is no long-term development of infrastructure in this area, I think this is a matter that should be viewed very seriously.My second point concerns the agencies, of which we are acquiring an ever-greater number. We must ensure that there is no overlapping of tasks when we set up agencies, but we must also ensure that the agencies are able to carry out their tasks and that their budgets for 2003 put them in a position successfully to complete the preparations for enlargement in 2004.Finally, I should like to mention that the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs attaches importance to priority’s being given in the Budget to the new strategy relating to the working environment.
I have voted against the Daul resolution on the CAP mid-term review, which calls for the present European agricultural model to be maintained and reinforced.This is very bad news for the developing countries and for Africa, where most people live by agriculture. European agricultural subsidies deprive farmers in developing countries of the ability to compete with their European counterparts. Furthermore, export subsidies lead to agricultural surpluses from the EU being dumped in developing countries at prices that are lower than those at which those countries can produce them themselves.Income support independent of production may be justifiable; export subsidies are not. They distort the market, are fatal for the farmers in the poorest countries and go against all the principles of the liberalisation of world trade. The system is, above all, unfair: while in the 80s, the poorest countries were required by the IMF to abolish subsidies on agriculture, the rich countries still continue to subside their agriculture 20 years on.Who will end up paying for this? It will be the European taxpayer and the small farmers in the developing countries. The winners will be the large agro-industrial companies.(Text abbreviated in accordance with 137(1) of the Rules of Procedure)- Nuclear sector (B5-0567/2002)
Mr President, I am very pleased about this new proposal concerning forest reproductive material because it offers new opportunities or, rather, gives the old opportunities a new lease of life, above all with a view to there being several categories of material. The expression of known origin will make it possible to maintain the genetic and biological diversity of the forest in local regions and on land given over to forests. True, our forests are certainly producers of renewable material, but they are also infinitely more than just raw materials. The forest is also home to a great diversity of biological life. It is also an important means of trapping carbon dioxide and it is perhaps the earth’s most important regulator of the climate and water supply.The forest also has a spiritual dimension. It represents peace and quiet, silence and tranquillity for stressed-out urban men and women, especially if they were born in the northern dimension. It is therefore important that forests be treated as diverse in their own right and as having a diversity of functions. I therefore repeat that I am very glad that, as the proposal now reads, there exists this opportunity to maintain the genetic and biological diversity of the forests.
Mr President, as previous speakers have indicated, allowing this convention to become a powerful and important tool for the European Union is the best way of celebrating it, when it comes to both domestic and foreign policy. We must do everything to ensure that the countries with which we are cooperating honour their obligations under the convention. We know, as a lot of people here have mentioned, that many countries have ratified it. But how many countries are there really which honour their obligations, for example to report on what they have done. We must make sure that the convention is an important tool in relation to the candidate countries. I think that a step forward was taken when children’s rights were specified in the progress report on Romania. As we know, conditions were in that way established for negotiations with Romania.In the statement which most of us are looking forward to and which Commissioner Vitorino mentioned, we must also find out how much the European Union is spending on children under the PHARE and TACIS programmes. Hans van den Broek was promising for a time that we should obtain such a report, but it has not been forthcoming. I look forward to its arriving no later than with the statements.Mrs Gröner mentioned child soldiers. I think that is the most topical of the questions concerning children’s rights. We must support all those who are working for the voluntary protocol, which will begin to be drawn up next year. We must make sure that countries which sanction child soldiers really are not given the same advantages. I am sorry that this Parliament could not have given the Sakharov prize to a woman who has fought against the employment of child soldiers. I think it is particularly important that, not only before but also after the Tampere Summit, we investigate – under the third pillar – how children are treated and ensure that child refugees receive special treatment.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I am delighted this debate is happening at last. As the Member for the Val d’Aosta, I have been calling for a moment’s reflection in this House for many months, because I believe these issues should be resolved through institutional channels, this is the true alternative to futile protests. It is sad that this should happen on the day after the accident in the St Gotthard tunnel, which used to be referred to as one of the safest of tunnels, and, what is more, in Switzerland, which is the only European country – not yet part of the European Union – that has truly embarked on a policy of transferring freight from road to rail.Mont Blanc has always been a symbol: it has been the symbol of mountaineering and also the symbol of road transport, with this tunnel built in the 1960s, which for many years was the most important tunnel in the Alps. Nobody could ever have imagined that we would see such intense growth in road transport, and I must say that 24 March 1999 was, for those who saw it, like me, a tragic day: the sight inside the tunnel was truly appalling.I believe that all these events should serve to make it clear that extreme positions on both sides are useless. The extremist approach adopted by those who say ‘stop the HGVs’ is unrealistic. It offloads HGVs onto someone else and proposes a utopian world without transport and without mobility; naturally, however, we must also say no to those who call for ‘unlimited transport for all: the economy needs it.’ I believe this is an unsustainable position for mountain peoples like those in the Val d’Aosta, whom I represent, just as a pretence at a setting a limit would also be unsustainable. In fact, we are asking for a daily ceiling on HGV numbers – a genuinely effective serious limit. On the eve of this meeting, Società Autostrade, the motorway operator, told us that, according to the tunnel calculations, traffic will be 30 per cent lower than before the tragedy. I do not know if this will suffice, but I must say that the right approach is in the White Paper, the Alpine Convention transport protocol and the Swiss model. Under the swiss model, it was decided to agree to HGVs if they pay a tax and to invest the revenue, together with other capital, in rail tunnels. We want rail tunnels: we want the Turin-Lyon tunnel; we also want the Aosta-Martigny tunnel, this rail project that may acquire vital, decisive importance. In the meantime, however, we want real, serious limits for the sake of safety and the environment.
Mr President, I am very pleased to be able to respond to this strategic document on behalf of my group. Broadly speaking, we can welcome it as evidenced by the fact that we have not tabled any amendments. We seem to be moving on with the internal market, hopefully to a position where we will get an internal market that functions properly and fairly for all our citizens and businesses.I would like to highlight two challenges to the perfection of the internal market. The first is striking a proper balance between a quest for harmonisation and respect for the subsidiarity principle. I wish to draw attention to this in relation to the ultra-peripheral regions of the Union whose status has now been specifically recognised by Article 299 of the Treaty. Our group will seek to support an inclusion of an amendment to the motion endorsing this.The second and perhaps bigger challenge is that of the new technologies, the advent of e-commerce. We have the biggest opportunity ever to make the single market a reality to many sole traders and SMEs in our Member States who may not previously have thought of selling outside their own immediate locality. However, this commercial revolution in the way we do business will also require a revolution in our legal thinking. As a lawyer I know that my profession is not particularly known for being revolutionary. The systems of commercial and civil law that exist across our Member States were largely constructed in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, a response to industrial and commercial changes in those centuries. We need our own new responses for the 21st century.I have raised, as have other colleagues, our fears about the combined contents of the Framework E-Commerce Directive and the revision to the Brussels and Lugano Conventions. There are fears that e-commerce may be strangled at birth by regulations which potentially expose traders to 15 different European legal jurisdictions whilst at the same time the very same regulations could fail to really give our citizens easy or affordable access to justice. The old conventions and legal approaches need to be subject to some new and imaginative thinking if we are really to unleash the potential of e-commerce. Some have suggested a new lex mercatoria. Maybe it should be e-lex.It is equally true, given the question tabled by Mrs Palacio Vallelersundi, that Parliament needs to be fully involved in this process. With new legislative proposals, we should not be pushed to provide opinions and reports at breakneck speed which allow us little time for thought and consultation with interest groups and citizens. Whether it be regulation by that way or by means of so-called new soft-law methods, again Parliament needs to be fully and properly engaged in the process.There is no room for fudge or lack of clarity. The new commerce will need a framework that provides certainty both for consumer and trader alike. We have challenging times ahead. Give this House the time and mechanisms which will allow us to respond in a way that meets not only the expectations of Europe’s citizens but also of those in the global marketplace who are waiting for us to take a lead.
Madam President, first I would like to express my deepest regret that we are debating a review of the financial perspective, and we have not even been presented with an initial written document. If an issue like this is presented to Parliament, I would have thought that we might have had something in black and white, so we would know what we were talking about.First of all, I would like to say that, not only are we faced with this bad example of administration, but that the Commission seems to take the view that wars can be waged and expenses incurred, yet the financial perspective cannot be reviewed. The only way we can bear the costs of war and its consequences would seem to be at the expense of agriculture. I would ask the Commissioner how this Commission proposal fits in with the decision of Parliament on next year’s guidelines that agriculture could not be the primary source of financing, as it appears that more would be taken out of agriculture than found, for example, by means of reallocation. On the other hand, I would ask whether the Commission believes it would again be possible to use the flexibility instrument for this financing measure, since the rules forbid the use of the flexibility instrument more than once?
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I feel nothing but appreciation for Mrs Palacio Vallelersundi’s clear draft report. It concisely outlines and highlights the key points from the Commission’s communication on the strategy to be followed for Europe’s internal market. I would like to highlight some of these points.The promised dialogue between the Commission on the one hand and business and citizens on the other is to be welcomed because the relationship between the Commission, the European Parliament and society should, after all, be interactive. In order to keep pace with the present breakneck speed at which technology is developing, it is not only desirable but essential to keep the dialogue going. So far, the average citizen has had insufficient insight into what drives the Union and what can be gained from European cooperation. This is why information campaigns are essential. After all, Europe cannot afford to remain a remote spectacle. Back to basics should be our motto.The e-Europe initiative praises the use and expertise of Internet and multimedia. This is very commendable indeed but, rather than just creating a frame, it is more important to give substance to education. I would like to repeat the words of the French President spoken at the official opening of this Parliament building and I quote: “We must create a citizens’ Europe in which each individual gradually comes to see that he or she has a role to play. We have a duty to build this great common house in which each individual nevertheless feels at home. A house in which everyone lives together, in a spirit of solidarity, but in which each individual retains his or her identity”.In order to meet these objectives, the residents need to get to know and get a feel for their house, or rather their home. In order to build a genuine internal market, we should, more than anything, concentrate on promoting the interests of small and medium-sized businesses. To this day, there are still too many obstacles. Companies’ competitiveness and dynamism depend directly on a regulating climate which is conducive to investment, innovation and entrepreneurship.Finally, I can only echo the need for SLIM. Legislation must become simpler and must be written in a clear language. Superfluous legislation should be withdrawn. It would therefore be beneficial to draw up a scoreboard of laws which have been abolished.
Mr President, we should not lightly move Question Time to the Commission. It is all very well to play high politics in this House but to many of our Members Question Time to the Commission is extremely important. Indeed, much of our work of scrutinising of the Commission is done through Question Time.I accept the case on this occasion, since we wish to have representatives of the Council and the Commission present for the debate. However, I would appeal to my colleagues in the other groups that we do not make a habit of moving Question Time to the Commission. It is an important part of our work.Our view on the question of the vote is that we are in a very fast-moving situation. We will certainly know more by Thursday than we will by Wednesday. There is a good case on this occasion for taking that vote on Thursday lunchtime and not on Wednesday.
I will do my best to replace Mrs Paulsen who put the question.Commissioner, I understand from your reply that you actually share the concern of Mrs Paulsen. The question contains a suggestion that the situation is extremely serious across Europe. The Commission needs to take special measures and review the situation. From the Commissioner’s reply, I understand that you share the view that such a review is necessary. What we would like to see, and what Mrs Paulsen would like, is for Commissioner Bolkestein to promise here and now that the matter is being monitored carefully and that there is a readiness to implement measures and carry out an investigation and an analysis.Finally, I would just like to tell Mr Bolkestein that in my country, Sweden, where we have the highest food prices, there is a movement to improve the situation. We know that food prices account for a great deal of what European citizens have to pay out each month, not least those on the lowest incomes.
Mr President, Commissioner, the Council has adopted the European Parliament’s amendments on the labelling of beef products. There has been fruitful interinstitutional cooperation, and the codecision procedure has shown its strength. The result is a victory for consumers, and not just them, but the whole beef sector chain: the producers, the processing industry and the organisations representing the beef trade. This regulation will make it possible to trace the origin of meat, and even according to a reasonable timetable. After EU enlargement this sort of system will be vital for consumers and producers. To tell the truth, we could not have waited any longer for this system to be put into practice. Now it depends on the Member States whether the practice of labelling is adopted in the hoped for manner. I also hope consumer organisations will give their strong support to the implementation of the provisions in practice.
Those of us who have studied the matter closely are certainly able to welcome the real progress that is nevertheless being made by Turkey to reform its prison system.We also share something of the suffering of the political prisoners and their families who have chosen to starve themselves to death. The Turkish judicial and penal system is in transition from a regime of retribution and oppression to a more western approach, where prisoners are penalised but not persecuted. The European Union should assist this reform process by supporting financially and also technically certainly carefully selected confidence-building measures, without which the fasting will not cease. These measures include training of judicial officials, prison officers and gendarmes, ensuring first-class medical services, improving conditions for prison visits and installing the independent scrutiny of the prison system and protecting lawyers. Solitary confinement must be the exception and not the norm. Prison rules must be applied scrupulously and the arbitrary treatment of all prisoners must stop.
Madam President, the Committee on Petitions considers this report to be extremely important. Enlargement is the most exciting, difficult political challenge of this century and cannot just be addressed from an accounting perspective.We need more political ambition and a less parochial, more global vision of politics. The quality of the European Union’s politics must be enhanced too, and the Union must become more than just a large market. Only political stature can make us credible interlocutors in the western world as difficult processes of cultural, economic and, above all, judicial integration are developed. Small-minded, petty egotism will be of no help to us; conservatism is in danger of making us introspective and isolated, with serious medium- and long-term consequences.The enlargement process is now underway. The slow, gradual adjustments that are being made in the candidate countries, as we have heard, must not just be encouraged but supported and not just at the top but with appropriate budgetary policies in a climate of solidarity and rigour and with a view to safeguarding development and peace, if we are to avoid the danger of Eurosceptic reactions.
Mr President, what has happened in recent years in Kosovo is a profound tragedy. On many occasions, we have condemned from this Chamber the outrages perpetrated upon the Kosovan Albanian people. Their suffering is inconceivable, and none of us can ever understand the scale of what they have experienced. We in the European Union are also guilty of not having succeeded in time in preventing Milosevic’s insane excursions so close to our own territory. The EU also has an important role to play in the reconstruction process. All democratic forces must be supported in order to facilitate the reconstruction and create a functioning and democratic civil society.The collective rape which has been committed against the Kosovan Albanian people cannot however justify the actions which have been reported on against civilians belonging to, among other groups, the Serbian minority, but also other minorities. If any kind of normality is to be achieved, all affected parties must feel secure in returning or in staying where they are. This applies to both the majority and the minority. The persecutions, and in certain cases murders, of Serbs which have occurred are therefore entirely to be condemned and must cease. They do not carry the peace process forward. The outrages committed against KFOR personnel are also unacceptable and, on behalf of my Group (the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party), I should like strongly to condemn these. I should also like to appeal to all parties to cease committing such outrages and to lay down their weapons and together embark upon the long and difficult road to peace. I plead for all parties and organisations to work together for a better and brighter future in Kosovo, a future where all can hopefully live together.IN THE CHAIR: MR INGO FRIEDRICHVice-President
Mr President, in my opinion it is a positive sign that the Convention’s proposals strengthen cooperation between the Council and governments in Union decision-making. The weakest link in the proposed new Treaty is the proposals concerning the Council. Although many objected beforehand to the establishment of new institutions, the Convention is actually proposing that two new institutions should be created. The European Council is to be considered as a separate institution, and it is being proposed that it should have an external President. Both proposals are the wrong ones.The Council must be considered in the new Treaty as a single institution, and a prime minister or president who is in office must be elected as its long-term President. The Presidencies of Councils of Ministers for the various areas of policy must be shared among the representatives of more than one country. The Presidencies must be for two and a half years, and the Member States must be treated impartially when assigning them.Such a reform of the Council would correspond to the proposals that Secretary General of the European Council, Javier Solana, made over a year ago. They must be given consideration in the Intergovernmental Conference, as the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party proposes in Amendment No 28.
Mr President, since there is a very large measure of agreement in this House over the fundamentals of policy towards the ECB, I would like to address one specific measure which we have in the draft resolution, which we have requested before without receiving a formal response from the Governing Council in the Annual Report, and I hope this will be rectified. It is the issue of publishing the balance of votes on an anonymous basis, so that the markets and Parliament can assess the shift of opinion over time.You, Mr Duisenberg, have raised objections in the past to such a move, because the Governing Council tends to decide by consensus. I was glad that you indicated to us in committee that you would reconsider this over time. I hope that you will decide to take decisions by majority voting, both because this would lead to more efficient decision-making and because you are asked to do so in the Treaties.I would like to make it clear that I do not share the criticism over the last year that the ECB has acted too little and too late. In fact the ECB first cut interest rates in May 2001 despite a continuing rise in inflation, which had still to peak at 3.4%. You have honoured your monetary reference values only in the breach, and in 26 out of 41 months you have allowed inflation to exceed your target range. This is a pragmatic institution. However, we know from the Council of Ministers that voting by consensus, in other words by unanimity, is slower and more difficult than voting by majority.For this reason alone, it would be sensible for the ECB in future to vote by majority. The fact that present procedures have not led to mistakes is not an argument against improving them, particularly when this is what the Treaty requires. Article 10 of the Protocol on the Statute of the European System of Central Banks clearly states that the Governing Council shall act by a simple majority.Therefore, I hope that the Governing Council will also note its Treaty obligations in the manner of its decision-taking by majority.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I share the rapporteur’s concern about the fact that evidently, European institutions are unable to issue transparent, readily accessible regulations which are clear and understandable to people with average IQ levels. All credit to Mr Doorn, who has managed to put his finger on the problem.It should be highlighted, rightly so, that EU citizens and businesses consider complex legislation and red tape to be evidence of a lack of efficiency within the institutions. The causes are obvious. As long as the Commission does not adopt a clear, centralised approach to SLIM, the SLIM initiative remains an exercise with no strings attached. It should be anything but that.In my opinion, two goals need to be brought into focus, in addition to the recommendations which are currently in the report. First of all, the SLIM initiative must be lent a binding character, particularly with EU enlargement on the horizon. Secondly, Member States must, as of now, set a good example by guaranteeing a correct, but above all, timely transposition of European directives into national legislation.All too often, we have been under the impression that the process of simplification, which is so crucial, is much like a procession of Echternach. Pending the Union’s enlargement, we must shift up a gear if we want to develop the internal market in a professionally responsible manner. I am delighted that the Member State which I have the honour of representing here, has realised that special measures need to be taken, as is the case in the Netherlands, to simplify legislation in a consistent manner. Convinced of the need for simplified legislation, thewill be lending the Doorn report its unqualified support.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the difficulties of finding a compromise have already been mentioned during the course of this debate. It appears that the final solution is acceptable because it reconciles the need for competition with liberalisation and, most importantly, with the obligation for a universal service, and we know that there will be subsequent stages which will make it possible to assess the situation.I particularly welcomed the fact that the reference to postal services in rural areas was accepted in committee. It was no coincidence that I tabled an amendment which also mentions the problems of mountains and islands. I am making particular reference to mountainous areas, even though they do not always fall within the definition of rural regions, because, observing the development of the postal system in many European countries, the question of mountains is now one of the most difficult matters to resolve. If we were to analyse the data already available to us, we would probably discover that a great deal, hundreds, maybe thousands of post offices have been closed in mountainous areas. Clearly, over and above the evaluations of the economic quality of the system which always have to be carried out, the real risk is that the mountainous areas will become marginalised, and new solutions therefore have to be sought which make it possible to maintain an essential service such as the postal service, enhanced by other services. In my opinion, this will be one of the major issues affecting the development of the European mountainous areas in the coming years.
Mr President, with regard to tobacco, many wonder what business it is of the European Parliament, the European Commission or our Health Ministers. Tobacco is a natural stimulant. You are supposed to enjoy it and politicians should not spoil this enjoyment. But, Mr President, this is not how it is of course. Needless to say, the element of freedom of choice and personal responsibility should be retained. This is based on the premise that the decision is taken by an adult who knows all the facts, and therein lies the difficulty.I believe that smokers are ill-informed on the effects of using tobacco and that they do not give their environment sufficient consideration. This is our business. And rightly so!With a directive of this kind, the health aspects will inevitably be the focus of attention. However, we are principally dealing with an internal market directive, which is why Article 95 of the Treaty has been taken as a legal basis. There is doubt about this within the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, and their rapporteur has expressed this hesitation quite openly to us in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. This doubt is probably exacerbated by fact that the tobacco advertising directive case is now before the Court in Luxembourg. I, however, do not share this doubt at all. If it had been a public health directive, then other measures would have been proposed. Then, we would have discussed points of sale, smoking at work, smoking in public places, possibly minimum age, which I personally do not support in any case. We would certainly have mentioned the most effective policy against tobacco, namely a price policy. We only need to look at the British and Swedish examples to see that this policy works.What we are talking about here is the amalgamation and updating of three existing directives, two of which have already been assessed by the Court, where the legal basis was not commented on. This draft directive has far too little in common with the one currently under discussion in Luxembourg to warrant a fair comparison.However, we need to harmonise the internal market for tobacco products as a matter of urgency. At the moment, we are entangled in national rules, which leads to barriers to trade and legal inequality among consumers. Harmonisation, therefore, will benefit industry and public health. For example, our discussions have led to the development of common testing methods and a positive list of additives, as is already in place in France, Germany and Belgium. I would have liked to propose a list of this kind myself, but I believe that, at the moment, there is too much uncertainty surrounding such a list, to warrant such a proposal. But the proposals made by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection could mean that such a list could be a reality as early as 2004.In addition, this test procedure will bring about more openness regarding ingredients and additives, as well as prescribe conditions for the import to, sale within and of course – logically – the export from the European Union. We, however, are keeping an open mind with regard to the problems which European industry could face in this respect, and so the committee has embraced the possibility of postponement until 2006.We want to provide consumers with free choice based on more extensive information. The best means of communication is the packet itself. It has transpired that the current warnings which cover 4% of the front and back of the packet are completely ineffective and insultingly simplistic. First and foremost, the information is misleading. The terms ‘light’, ‘ultra light’, ‘low-tar’ and such like, are incorrect. But indicating the different tar, nicotine and probably carbon monoxide yields also creates a false illusion – and young women, in particular, fall into the trap that certain cigarettes are less harmful than others. This terminology should be withdrawn.But in addition to this, we need more useful information, and this is what smokers want too. They know that smoking is not good for you but they know precious little else. I have tabled an amendment that tidies up the proposals made by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection in this respect. The message on the packet should take up more space and should ideally be illustrated. How much space, you may ask? Well, enough space. According to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, it should take up 40% or 50%. I suggested 35% or 45% in a proposal which I re-submitted via my group. But in any case, messages should not take up less than 30% of space on the packets, which is the proportion currently specified in Poland. This is why, in my opinion, the 25% suggested by the European Commission is insufficient, although it is a huge step forward.Finally, I would like to thank the delegates for their remarkable cooperation and I am also grateful to the European Commission and the President-in-Office of the Council. This is bound to result in better policy. Similarly, the dialogue with the health organisations and industry has been a positive step. This Parliament has freedom of choice too and can now use it. A choice between tinkering at the edges or taking forceful measures. I call on Parliament to display the courage it takes to go far, because this will be to everyone’s benefit.
Mr President, it might be helpful if I could make a procedural point on this matter. Yesterday my group, as in so many votes in this House, were on automatic pilot, but some of us rather crash-landed, as we discovered, in the vote in respect of Amendment No 15, which was from theGroup and called for the release of Mrs Zana and others. We had voted the wrong way.I have already had a correction made but I would ask you formally to facilitate through the day the possibility for colleagues in the  Group to contact sessional services. Some are not here now, partly because of the interruption and partly because the issue had not been foreseen. I would welcome your assistance in the matter.(The Minutes were approved)***
Mr President, President of the Commission, it seems that some of our Member States have been seized by a seven-year itch: it is the irresistible urge to scratch around for the best financial deal for themselves. But in their rush to advance their own interests, the Member States are failing to ask what might constitute the best deal for Europe.Liberal Democrats and Reformers believe that governments should first, as the admirable Mr Colom i Naval has suggested, take a long, hard look at what they have asked the European Union to do, and then give the institutions the resources they need to do the job. Governments should also ruthlessly tackle waste and fraud, most of which occur at national level, and target spending on our priorities to ensure maximum value for money for taxpayers.Britain, France, Germany and three other states have formed an unholy alliance, united only by their zeal to keep down their budget contributions. Even putting aside the wider benefits that the European Union buys, the EU needs a budget consistent with its responsibilities. This year we will integrate ten new Member States. Europe is charged with important new responsibilities abroad, and with the task of keeping us safe from crime and terrorism at home. Reviving growth requires progress on the ambitious reform agenda of Lisbon. Do the six states really expect the EU to do all of this on 1% of Europe's gross national income?With spending set to reach 1.11% of GNI in 2006, a ceiling of 1% in 2007 means not recalibration but cuts. None of these Member States can tell us where the axe will fall. Indeed, I would wager that they cannot even agree among themselves. My warning to Europe's citizens would be caveat emptor: buyer beware! These are the same governments who agreed in 2002 to a 1% annual increase in spending on the common agricultural policy.If Member States demonstrated a real willingness to reform the CAP further, it would be easier to take seriously their calls for parsimony. As it is, we are running this Union on just over 1% of the gross national income of the Member States, when the budget of the Federal Government in the United States is 20% of GNI.We must continue to strive for savings where possible, but also equip the Union to meet the objectives we have set ourselves. My Group believes that the key to better value lies in a modest budget increase, leaving a safe margin for unforeseen expenditure, linked to reform, less waste and more intelligent investment. Not promises of smarter spending from Member States with no will to deliver it.(Applause)
Mr President, through mankind's own folly we have damaged the ozone layer which protects life on this planet and now we must do everything we can to undo that damage.There has been very little opposition to the principle of phasing out HCFCs and methyl bromide. The question in committee has been about the timescales which should be involved. All Members have been presented with a great deal of conflicting factual information which has made reaching a judgement difficult.Like the rapporteur, the Liberal Democrats want to ensure that rapid progress is made, that we see the maximum benefits in the shortest possible period. But the choices are not simple. There is a real fear that some of the well-intentioned amendments which have been tabled by the rapporteur may actually make the situation worse; in particular, that it will make it difficult for us to phase out across the world, and especially in the developing nations, the harmful CFCs which are so much more detrimental to the ozone layer than the items mentioned in this report. The benefits to be gained from these proposals are too small for us to take that risk.We support the rapporteur's aims and will be supporting most of her amendments but we are not convinced that she has addressed our concerns for the environment in their entirety.
Mr President, Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I expect I am stating the obvious when I say that education and training are becoming increasingly important in a modern knowledge economy, if we in Europe are to continue to compete with industrialised parts of the world. I shall limit myself to the recommendations contained in my written opinion.Firstly: in education more attention should undoubtedly be paid to training in information technology both for pupils and for teachers. Students deprived of such a preparation run the risk of exclusion from the development of the new economy. We still lag far behind the United States as regards the use of information potential in education and business. Since no less than a quarter of newly created positions in the last decade are related to the information society, we must realise that students require thorough preparation. We must therefore also aim for optimum use of government investment in the use of technology.Secondly: attention has been repeatedly drawn to the need to bring students closer to business in order to train tomorrow’s entrepreneurs.Thirdly: the setting up of many more second-chance schools has become necessary, as the current number is far too low. Two pilot projects are planned for Spain, France and Germany – the large countries – but the Commission says nothing about the other countries. In view of the size of the large countries, five projects would be desirable while for smaller countries, at least two projects should be planned. By increasing the number of pilot projects, it might be possible to make the second-chance schools a more effective tool for strengthening economic and social cohesion and combating social exclusion more successfully.Finally knowledge of languages, one of the principal European aims. Our rapporteur, whom I thank for his report, believes that even knowledge of two languages would be a success. In my opinion, I stated that I should like to go a step further. In order to promote integration and the opportunities for students in the labour market, in my view knowledge of three languages should be regarded as a minimum. Why? Because quite a few Member States have more than one official language. Belgium has three. Learning the official languages of the countries of which the students are citizens is obviously essential for their integration into the work process but an extra language in addition to the official languages is highly desirable. If we look at the most recent survey of knowledge of languages carried out by Eurostat, we see that less than half, only 45%, of citizens of the European Union can conduct a conversation in any but their native language. So there is a great deal of work ahead of us, but that is equally true of the rest of the issues raised in this instructive debate.
Mr President, I think we should vote. Just one comment if I may: I understand that on various occasions colleagues may want to test the quorum. Would you ask the President to invite the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to consider a change to the Rules so we can check it electronically?
Mr President, perhaps there are others in this House who, like me, paid regular visits to Zimbabwe in the early 1980s and were able to discover at that time the kind of country it was. It was a land full of hope, the civil war was over and people wanted to embark on a new future. The oppositions between white and black would cease to exist. If we look at what has come of these plans twenty years on, we see chaos, poverty, possibly famine in prospect, no press freedom and certainly no democracy.Of course, Europe cannot stand idly by, just as it could not in the past. I think, however, that Europe, in particular, must encourage Africa to condemn Mr Mugabe, because if we are not careful that situation may spread to other countries in the region.What are our options according to my group? In the first place, we have to suspend aid. Food aid will be a different matter. If the reports are correct, Zimbabwe’s self-sufficiency may already be under serious threat, and this will certainly be the case in future. If that happens, food aid will have to be given, but of course it must not be distributed via the government bodies, since we know what will happen to it in that case. It must be distributed by independent organisations.We should also like an investigation to be carried out into what kind of sanctions can be used against Mr Mugabe and his clan personally. Can we take steps against possessions that they have in Europe, such as the freezing of bank accounts, etc?Finally, I should like the Commission to investigate whether the rumour is true that people from Zimbabwe enabled to study at European schools and universities, are mainly selected from the circles of Mugabe and his henchmen. Is that correct and does the Commission intend to do anything about it?
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my group, I would like to pledge our total support for the Commission communication and the implicit decisions to reinvigorate the Euro-Mediterranean policy.As has already been said, after eastward enlargement, this is becoming an absolute, essential priority, a duty we cannot shirk. To all the reasons for this which have existed thus far must be added the tragic war and terrorism in Israel and Palestine. We are currently faced with the proof, with constant confirmation of the fact that, if Europe does not become more involved and establish policies addressing the root causes of the region’s instability and lack of development, well then, we will be unable to prevent either real or potential conflict or its uncontrollable consequences such as illegal immigration. I therefore look forward to a more effective European Union policy on the Mediterranean; I welcome the idea of exporting the method of European integration, starting with the promotion of a genuine area of free trade facilitating as much south-south trade as possible, even above north-south trade.The plan for funding this process, through specialised sections of the EIB now and a Euro-Mediterranean Development Bank in the future, must be welcomed with open arms. However, where the Mediterranean is concerned – and I would stress once again, the Israeli-Palestinian crisis is evidence of this – we need to go deeper. This means concentrating now on recreating the necessary conditions and developing the dialogue between cultures and religions, a dialogue facilitating that mutual awareness and understanding which – we must realise – is no longer sufficient to avoid conflict between the Western and Islamic worlds, between Europe and the other Mediterranean cultures and between the Mediterranean cultures themselves.Good intentions or occasional interventions are not enough to achieve this: we need ongoing work with a lasting impact. That is why I feel I must support and call strongly for the immediate initiation of the work of the Euro-Mediterranean Foundation mentioned in the Commission communication. The Mediterranean is steeped in history and full of symbolic places in which the intercultural and interfaith dialogue has developed over the centuries. I come from a city, Venice, which has a tradition in that area, and I am sure that, if the Foundation taps into all these energy sources, the many energy sources present in the Mediterranean, the many tales and experiences of cooperation and understanding, we will certainly be able to address the root of the matter. We tend to see the cultural element as an optional extra in our programmes, as something which is second to politics and the economy, but in this case it must be given pride of place for it is the very foundation stone which will make it possible for politics and the economy to play their role too.
Why is Europe silent about human rights in Tunisia? Is it on account of the stability and economic progress which this holiday destination enjoys? Is it because of the political links with France or the Europeans? Or because it has adopted a constructive stance in the peace process in the Middle East? Or do we see Tunisia mainly as a bulwark against the rise of Islamic fundamentalism? At any rate, President Ali only has the religious fanatics in mind. He seems to be obsessed by them. But this concern is more of an alibi than a justification for the human rights situation in his country. Not only Muslim fundamentalists, but all political opponents are systematically silenced. Tunisia calls itself a democracy, a democracy without opposition that is, without freedom of the press, without fair judicial processes and with torture and the elimination of political prisoners and their families. Tunisia has concluded an association agreement with the European Union which contains a clear human rights clause. There can, of course, be no question of President Ben Ali’s claiming rights under the agreement but shirking his obligations under it. If the violations continue, the Treaty will unfortunately need to be suspended. Would Commissioner Patten agree with me there?Tunisia is the first Mediterranean Sea partner with which this association agreement has been concluded. Given its economic development, it can act as a model for the entire region, but it should then, of course, meet the political criteria. The European Union cannot allow one agreement partner that which it denies another. The Association Council must, therefore, look into the human rights situation as a matter of great urgency and draft a democratisation programme. If the European Union keeps quiet any longer, it will be partly responsible for the human rights violations in Tunisia.
Mr President, I should like to begin by congratulating both the rapporteur from the Committee on Women’s Rights and Equal Opportunities and the rapporteur from the Committee on Development and Cooperation for the work they have done in connection with this report. I think that the 20 or 21 amendments tabled at first reading show very well the cooperation there has been between these two committees. They have been an inspiration to each other.The Commission has adopted 20 out of 21 proposals, which is to be welcomed. I naturally find it annoying that we have not been able to increase the budget from EUR 9 million to EUR 11 million but, in line with other rapporteurs, I accepted that, if we wanted to conclude matters now, we should have to conclude with a figure of EUR 9 million for the appropriation for the next three years. It was the only opportunity we had to complete things and get matters under way. In common with others, I attached greater importance to this than to having the budget increased, partly because the previous funds have not been used.That being said, I think, in a way, that EUR 9 million is too small an amount when we consider what it really is we are up against. We often talk about the EU being an economic superpower in the world, which is what it in fact is, but it can safely be said that we are positively prehistoric in the area of development. Overall, we are clearly the world’s biggest provider of aid, and it is therefore important, of course, that we debate the basic principles upon which development work is based. Gender equality is one of the areas concerned, and a very important area too.It is a sine qua non that if we too do not combat female poverty, we shall simply not succeed in getting development under way. There is reason for hoping that what we have before us may be a stimulus to such development. In itself, it is not of course enough, but it can hopefully act as a catalyst, in the way described.
Thank you, Mr President. What the Commissioner is saying all sounds encouraging. I should like to pose a very brief question: how does she view cooperation between the proposed Prosecutor and OLAF?
Madam President, my group welcomes the decision. We regret, in fact, the delay of four months now in Parliament bringing the report to a conclusion. A failure or further delay would be catastrophic for Parliament’s reputation with its public.The centrepiece of the decision is Article 2. This will avoid a potential van Buitenen affair emerging from inside Parliament’s own ranks. The final clause of Article 2 is slightly cryptic, and questions will arise about its meaning. It is important for us to recognise that under the Rules of Procedure of Parliament the information acquired inside a temporary Committee of Inquiry is to remain secret only if it contributes to the writing of the inquiry report. We must acknowledge that any knowledge acquired that is superfluous to the inquiry or gratuitous should be disclosed immediately.
Mr President, the war with Iraq inevitably overshadowed the Council's important economic reform agenda. It is only natural that, at such a time, economic issues should take second place to matters of life and death. However, given the negative economic impact that the conflict could have on the Union's economy, we must not take our eyes off the ball and let the economic reforms that are needed to revitalise our economy fall further behind. So before turning to the conflict with Iraq, I will say a few words about economic reform.The truth is that the process of economic reform is running into the sand; with the European Union set to enlarge to 25 countries, we will have to run just to stand still. I should like to cite just three examples.First, at 1.9% of GDP, our investment in research and development is well below levels in the USA and Japan, and with only two of the accession countries spending more than 1% of GDP on research and development, we will be hard pressed to reach the 3% Lisbon target by 2010.My second example is taken from the Barcelona Council, where Europe's leaders committed themselves to cutting the percentage of single market laws not yet implemented to less than 1.5% – instead, the proportion rose last year to over 2%. As the incoming Member States will naturally face some teething problems in implementing law in the early years, this implementation deficit is in danger of growing further if we do not redouble our efforts. Progress will certainly not be achieved if others emulate the tactics used by Mr Berlusconi in his shameful attempt to defend illegal milk subsidies at the expense of a deal on the taxation of savings. That hardly augurs well for the Italian presidency.And third: raising levels of employment. It is impressive that we managed to create half a million jobs last year despite the economic slowdown. But the scale of the task ahead becomes clear when we note that unemployment in the EU as a whole rose last year to nearly 8%. On the issue of jobs, the Council appears to have followed the age-old practice: ‘If in doubt, create a task force’. I wish Wim Kok well in his work, but it is hard to see what answers he can come up with which are better than the tried and trusted recipe of reducing the burden of taxes on labour and increasing market flexibility.On Iraq, I welcome the forward-looking nature of the European Council conclusions, brokered by the President-in-Office, and their focus on humanitarian assistance, on rebuilding Iraq and the central role to be played in this by the United Nations. Humanitarian aid must get through. We see from the situation in Basra just how important that is. The horror transmitted through our television screens shows us just how necessary it is to get our relief agencies in and working. I welcome Mr Prodi's proposal for EUR 3 million of immediate humanitarian aid through the Red Cross. Liberal Democrats will support the rapid approval by our House of your request for the release of a further EUR 70 million from the emergency budget reserve.The EU has been damaged by the divisions of recent weeks. This could presage a new effort to heal the political wounds, but it is hard not to agree with the Luxembourg Prime Minister when he says that problems cannot be resolved unless they are discussed.I agree with the Council that we need to strengthen transatlantic relations. Our dialogue must be extended to cover reform of the United Nations and the role of international law, but the United States must accept that nothing durable can be established without institutions and rules.My group also welcomes Belgium's proposal for a ministerial meeting on North Korea. If the situation in Iraq had been discussed at the Seville Summit – as Mr Verhofstadt proposed – we might not be at sixes and sevens today.We must wait and see whether 2003 is an annus mirabilis or an annus horribilis for the European Union, but since we are now in the Year of the Goat, I would congratulate the Greek Presidency on its tenacity, persistence and determination in pushing through its agenda.(Applause)
Mr President, I welcome the vote on the resolution and would like to emphasise two points.First of all, I would like to respond to the proposals put forward by the Commissioner earlier on, by drawing his attention to the fact that Article 5 of the Treaty on the ECSC stipulates that the role of the Community is to shed light and facilitate the action of interested parties by assembling information, organising discussions and defining general objectives.It seems to me that, with regard to Walloon regional power, the Commission should consider such action.Secondly, I feel that, following the various reports that the Commission could present to us, it could be useful for Parliament to draw up an own-initiative report on the development of metalworking in the face of what will undoubtedly be at stake in the enlargement process.
Mr President, since the Bush administration has taken up office, the entire world is being shaken up by his highly conservative policy. His first action, abolishing aid to third-world countries in the field of birth control, was promptly followed by the transfer of social security in America to the churches. You cannot get any food in America unless you say your prayers.Subsequently, we witnessed America’s withdrawal from the Middle East peace process. That is literally a life-threatening development. And now, to cap it all, Kyoto. Bush thinks he can afford not to adhere to the worldwide agreements on CO2 reduction. The interests of the American oil industry thus apparently outweigh the environmental interest. All these retrograde steps surprise progressive Europeans and people worldwide. Our group is of the opinion, therefore, that it is of the utmost importance for all European institutions, but also the European Member States, to continue to take a firm stand against this development.
There are certain parts of the world where the fact that this House is a co-legislator is sometimes forgotten. The current ALA Regulation was adopted ten years ago as a regulation for the Asian and Latin American countries. Since then, although Parliament has expressly requested two separate regulations for two very different regions, the Commission has yet again tabled one proposal by means of which it wants to update the existing regulation and intends, at the same, to incorporate the regulation on aid to uprooted populations, which will lapse at the end of next year. Anyone would think that this parliamentary resolution had never existed. The Committee on Development and Cooperation therefore proposes, via amendments, to split the regulation into two separate regulations, and, as rapporteur, I set great store by passing on to you its message. Needless to say, although there will have to be extensive consultation with the Council on this matter, it is clear to everyone that a distinction must be drawn.I should now like to focus on content. The Commission wants a 'lightweight legislative framework' for its actions in the area of development cooperation in both regions. As it happens, it has become a very lightweight framework indeed. As the Millennium Development Goals, in fact, stated, the key goal of development cooperation is the fight against poverty and its ultimate eradication. I fail to find this spelled out clearly in the Commission proposal, and nor does it contain other objectives, such as education, health care, environment and democratisation. My first point, therefore, is that 35% of expenditure should be set aside for social infrastructure, something we have included in the budget on a regular basis since 2001. At least 20% of this should be spent on basic health care and basic education, for these Millennium Goals have had a very raw deal to date.Secondly, education, in particular, is a very important instrument in the fight against poverty. Everyone is entitled to it and must have access to all forms of education, irrespective of their origin, gender or age. A disproportionately large number of the poor in developing countries are women, but they are often the very people who are denied this right. They are the water carriers. I would therefore emphatically call for gender mainstreaming, and even for extra attention for women and girls, not only in education and health care, but also in social, economic and especially political spheres. As full members of society, they should be able to play a part in the way it functions.Another important point is participation. The abortive negotiations of the WTO in Cancún clearly underlined once again that the developing countries demand full participation. They do not have it, either at governmental level, or at the levels below. It is therefore of crucial importance that all interested parties be consulted when the strategic documents, the annual indicative programmes and the annual action plans for development cooperation are drafted. By this I mean not only the government bodies at national, regional and local level, but also the members of parliament in those countries, the NGOs, the private sector and also all other actors involved in civil society. They know their own requirements like no other and can therefore give a clear indication of what is needed. This was also a key request made to us by people in the field. Only in this way can a form of ownership be established of the different areas of policy and actions in development cooperation for people at every level. It is important that this House should be, both now and in the future, involved as co-legislator in European development policy. The Commission must therefore put before Parliament the strategic documents to which I have referred. It seems obvious to me that, in this context, not only should a description be given of the sectoral and inter-sectoral priorities, as well as the specific objectives, but also of the expected results on the basis of adequate performance indicators. As a Dutchwoman and a Liberal, I attach great value to the useful and effective spending of taxpayers' money. This can only be verified if clear objectives and performance indicators are established.Finally, I should like to underline here once again that the European Union's cooperation with Asia and Latin America requires a modern legislative framework, in which both the fight against poverty and that against inequality have their own dynamism.I should like to warmly thank my fellow MEPs for their cooperation. We have had excellent discussions, and, while these have not always led to agreement, I think that the discussion on this subject should be regarded as of exceptionally great value in the light of our common goal.
Mr President, I only wanted to report my presence for the Minutes. I will not be signing the attendance register as I am leaving in one hour, but I wanted everyone to know that I am here.
Mr President, I welcome the sign language interpreter. I only wish that we could have sign language interpretation for all our debates to make sure that all people could access all the reports. The timing of this debate is very sad, when so few Members are present in the Chamber and, even more importantly, to vote later. It is very important to demonstrate our commitment to disabled people. Putting the report right at the end of a Strasbourg agenda does not demonstrate any commitment.Having said that, I thank the Commission for their cooperation on my report and all the other Members of the European Parliament's Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. I have managed to incorporate a number of their amendments. I believe that is one of the main reasons why we do not have any new amendments today.The European Year of Disabled People, 2003 must not just pay lip service to the problems that disabled people face. We need to have concrete outcomes. For a start, we must truly move away from the medical model of disability to the social and rights-based model of disability. We must make sure that we mainstream disabled people; that all legislation takes account of the specific needs of disabled people, whether they are wheelchair users, someone with a visual impairment, someone with a hearing impairment, someone with a learning difficulty, or someone with a mental health problem. All EU citizens should have equal rights. I hope that in 2003 – if not before – we make sure that all of Parliament's buildings are accessible to disabled people – they are not at the moment – and that all EU Member States are aware of the problems that disabled people face.I shall tell you a story about what happened to Jenny, one of my constituents, the coordinator of Access Charter. I invited her over to the Article 13 Anti-Discrimination hearings. She uses a wheelchair. For a start, she could not get into the Parliament's buildings in Brussels without going through revolving doors because they refused to open the double doors. I remonstrated with them. They unlocked them, took off the rope that was binding them and then 20 minutes later they were locked and bound again.We booked her a hotel room with disabled people's access. Somebody had put a bed across the bathroom door and so she could not get in. She had to change hotels. She then went out to try to get something to eat at night, with her colleagues – remember she was using a wheelchair. No taxi in Brussels would stop for her. She managed to get to a restaurant. The manager then came out and said 'You can't come in here. Your appearance will put off other diners.' When she got to the airport she was subjected to a full body search. She remonstrated with the security people. One of them said: 'Have a nice trip. I hope your plane crashes.'!That demonstrates the problems that disabled people face and the real need for a disability directive. I hope we will hear the announcement of that in 2003. We have to have funding for major research into the status of disabled people. We have to have a study into the situation disabled people face in institutions in particular. It is essential that regional and local government are involved in this year but, more importantly, that organisations of disabled people and representing disabled people are involved in this year.I have called specifically for a funding increase from EUR 12 million to EUR 15 million over the two years. Particularly for sign language interpretation, for personal assistance, for accessible meeting rooms, for hotels etc., there are added costs; in addition, funding for impairment-specific NGOs is only for 2002, not for the year itself.Furthermore, in line with the Article 13 Action Programme on Anti-Discrimination, I have called for subsidies for the expenses for special events at European level to go up from 'not exceeding 80%' to 'not exceeding 90%'. We must also have a proper evaluation of the year in clear and simple language, and in accessible formats. I made my report available in all accessible formats at my own expense. But I would like the Commission, in future, to make available on request any report at whatever stage in accessible format.Finally, the year must be the step in the right direction to combat discrimination. But more importantly, it has to be a celebration of disabled people's contribution to society.(Applause)
Madam President, I would firstly like, of course, to congratulate Mr Watson on his excellent work and his important and difficult report.Mr Watson has not theorised, but has taken account of what afflicts us and, in particular, he has dealt directly with what is inflicted on us by ETA, and of what affects Basque society, Spanish society and, in my case, Catalan society. His total condemnation and his call for the need to respect victims must be a constant element in our statements and our positions.I would firstly and clearly like to highlight in this report the fact that important positive action measures are proposed for the legal and police areas: the establishment of minimum standards, the establishment of a form of extradition, the recognition of judicial resolutions, the execution of arrest warrants and the approximation of national legislations. I believe that these measures improve the important and priority legal and police action.In the time that I have available, I believe I should stress that the report has not renounced important values in the fight against terrorism in Europe. It is very important that Recital N incorporates the idea that ideologies are legitimate if they are compatible with democratic respect and values.It is significant that in Recital O, the expression ‘democratic dialogue’ reappears, as a fundamental principle, based on mutual respect and non-violence. It is also significant that Recitals R and S state that measures must have restrictions on the part of States so that there is no abuse of the legal regulations.I believe that all of this is important, given the balance which is provided by priority and efficiency of action and respect for European values. I must mention my satisfaction with these changes, because they change the resolution, approved by written declaration in September 1999 and in which I expressed my disagreement – even though I signed it – with the removal of the expression ‘democratic dialogue’.Through this report the European Union is fully recovering its values on this issue, because peace, understood as the exclusion of violence, on the one hand, and dialogue, on the other, is an essential pairing for the European Union, inside and outside Europe. Europe, when it goes anywhere, inside or outside, does so with this pairing of ‘peace and democratic dialogue’ and clearly, as I insist inside and outside, I do not want to give any example because I would not want it to provoke comparisons which would alter what is positive about this report and this debate.I am very satisfied that this report can be approved and that it will be an effective tool for resolving this serious problem which affects many people.
Mr President, I have tried to listen carefully to the Council and the Commission and have to say that the Commission has, as usual, been more honest in describing where our partnership stands today and in pointing out that it is a question of both give and take, for I think that the results are notable by their absence. Further shadow boxing and fine-sounding speeches are more in evidence than actual results.I also believe that there is an alarming risk that, to some extent, relations between the United States, Russia and the EU will come to resemble those we are seeing in the Middle East. Are we in the EU the only people to be concerned about human rights, freedom of expression, media pluralism, the environment and, perhaps too, the position of the organisations representing citizens? What is actually happening in Kaliningrad? What is in fact happening in the energy dialogue? We are waiting for results.What is happening with the environmental partnership in the northern dimension? In the context of quite a few summits, the EU has said that something must happen. The EU has made decisions to enable it to finance important environmental projects in north-western Russia, but the Russian Federation is not playing its part. Are we to promise WTO and NATO membership or should we perhaps demand results from the Russian side as preconditions for such membership?The Presidency and the Commission touched upon the issue of responsibility for nuclear waste, and specifically the MNEPR Agreement. How many times are we to see the Presidency, for example the Swedish Presidency, seeking results? The issue is postponed, first for six months and then year after year, while all the time we know that the clock is ticking for untreated waste and that the submarines in Murmansk may begin to leak. We also know that, in my country, we have major problems with land transport to Russia where agreed deadlines are not complied with and additional costs are incurred.I would also appeal to you to address difficult issues in the negotiations with Russia. I would say, finally, to the Presidency that other summits and other heads of government have not hesitated to address the situation of kidnapped children. This issue must also be addressed in a serious dialogue. I myself am aware of quite a few children, for example Maria Sobeva and Tommi Ylönen, who have been kidnapped and taken to Russia.
Mr President, recent incidents which involved meat from sick cows ending up in the food chain in the Netherlands and France, as well as the debate which has flared up again in Great Britain, underline once again the need for tighter monitoring and inspection of food production. Winning back the public’s confidence in food safety is more important than for food safety alone. After all, this is about the confidence of the citizen in the government.This is why the new European Food Safety Agency must become a powerful and independent body which does not only inform the public but is also given specific powers to propose effective measures in good time and to investigate problems in the event of a crisis. We therefore have an organisation in mind which is as slim as possible, and not a large bureaucracy. In addition, part of the body’s efficiency will consist of transparent decision-making and the swift publication on the Internet of its studies and recommendations, as happens with, for example, the Food and Veterinary Office in Dublin, which is running extremely smoothly. The public is entitled to this. It is also important to build on the work of existing organisations, such as EMEA and FAO, because duplication must be avoided.Finally, the European Government should not escape its responsibility. In the final analysis, decisions must be taken by the European Commission, and Parliament must, for example by means of a discussion on the annual report, remain involved in the work of the agency.On a final note, President Prodi created huge expectations in the run-up to his presidency, and Commissioner Byrne and rapporteur Bowis were asked to flesh these out in their White Paper. I believe they succeeded in this extremely well, and we shall now welcome legislation in this field as soon as possible.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are circumstances which make Western Sahara a highly topical issue and they are relevant this evening. The first is the United Nations Security Council’s urgent resolution of 29 February, which agreed to extend the MINURSO mandate to the end of May. Secondly, there is the food crisis facing the Sahrawi refugees in the desert camps.Mention must be made of serious incidents which have recently occurred in the occupied territories of Western Sahara, where pro-referendum demonstrations have been suppressed by the Moroccan authorities. Mention must also be made of the visit the Maghreb Delegation will be making to Morocco next week and the King of Morocco’s favourable attitude to the European Parliament visiting the territory of Western Sahara for the first time.The instability that could become endemic in this part of Africa could affect some of the outermost Community regions, like my region, the Canary Islands. Our citizens want a peaceful solution to the conflict in Western Sahara and they want the Sahrawi people to hold the referendum under conditions of freedom, transparency and equality.And finally, one of the objectives of the European Union’s common foreign and security policy is the maintenance of peace and the strengthening of international security. And here the High Representative for the CFSP, Mr Solana, ought to play a more active role in achieving adequate guarantees for the Sahrawi people through an active presence and direct participation in the stages of the peace process and the referendum.That is why we support the motion for a resolution.
Madam President, President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, I am not going to insist on the seriousness of the situation or of the escalation. However, I would like to insist on what Commissioner Patten has said: the violence has not perhaps reached the level it could reach. Sometimes we say ‘things cannot get any worse’, but in this case the situation could get worse. Therefore, our obligation is not only to resolve the problem but, of course, to prevent it getting any worse.However, apart from the fact that we are trying to put an end to the violence by means of dialogue, I believe that I should add certain aspects, directly related to human rights, to what previous speakers have said. Of course, the fact that there are innocent victims represents a direct attack on human rights. It is therefore necessary to point out specifically and to insist, both to Israel, which frequently uses disproportionate State force, and to the Palestinians, who do not control their activists, that human rights are continually being affected.I believe that the European Parliament should currently be sensitive to the fact, condemned by certain NGOs, that four Palestinians may be executed if Yasser Arafat does not commute the sentences handed down for internal activities within the Palestinian area or for collaboration. I believe that this Parliament should try to prevent these executions.Recovering dialogue: I would like, in the time available to me, because everything is getting worse and, of course, the Durban Conference has merely exacerbated the situation, to mention what I believe are the eight issues to which we should lend clear support.Firstly, I believe that the priority should be to resolve the problem of impartiality. I agree that impartiality is not the same as equidistance, Mr Barón, I agree with you. I believe that impartiality is a necessary concept, but in politics impartiality is often not achieved without equidistance. Therefore, equidistance may be an instrument, although I do not doubt that the objective is impartiality. I believe that it is urgent and important to recover impartiality towards everybody, in particular towards Israel.Secondly, we must clearly insist on the mission of impartial observers from the European Union.Thirdly, the Mitchell report must continue to be the direction we take. There is no other, at the moment at least.Fourthly, we must prevent the inappropriate use of the Barcelona Process for the Middle East conflict. The Barcelona Process suffers with the Middle East Conflict but it is not the appropriate course for resolving that conflict.Fifthly, we must insist on the need for the United States and Russia to participate.The sixth issue is that we must clearly promote as far as possible every type of contact, as is happening at the moment.The seventh issue is that the actions of the Ministers, of the Commission and of the Council must be aimed at promoting dialogue between Mr Arafat and Mr Peres, between Palestinians and Israelis. And in this regard, Madam President, we keenly await the report to be presented by Mr Solana and which Mrs Neyts-Uyttebroeck has announced.Finally, and here I agree with Mr Barón Crespo, any symbol is positive; any possibility, such as the opening of Orient House, is positive; anything which will stop the conflict escalating is important and the essential thing is to return to peace and dialogue.
Mr President, thestrongly welcomes the report for not simply revisiting existing powers to improve clarity but for boldly seeking to adjust competences to face the challenges that the Union knows, especially in the foreign and security field.The report will serve as the first contribution to the Convention on the question of competences. I trust that the Convention will follow the wise approach in rejecting the rigid and misleading concept of exclusive competences and in focusing instead on developing a more sophisticated system of power sharing.My group supports the idea of creating a new judicial procedure of constitutional complaint for breaches of competency, which implies the rapid evolution of the European Court. The procedure would be rarely deployed, but it represents a significant insurance scheme to see that the Union authorities do not abuse their reinforced powers.A further area deserving of greater focus concerns the regions, which can be, and should be, useful intermediaries between the citizen on the one hand and the supranational authorities on the other. We are proposing amendments which will strengthen the report in this respect.
Mr President, it is rather odd that we find ourselves dissecting Council documents the day after summit meetings. I too have been doing so, having a privileged look at the transport sector, and I have seen some interesting things: the Single Sky, the Gibraltar affair, the railways, Galileo; in short, there are several good and interesting pieces of news. I was, however, rather concerned to read the part about the trans-European transport networks, although it started off positively enough. There is mention of carrying out a quick review by December 2002, and then it is said there is a need to improve transport conditions throughout the European Union and to reduce the bottlenecks in regions like the Alps, the Pyrenees and the Baltic Sea. In the White Paper, however, instead of ‘reduce’ it says ‘eliminate’, which is certainly better. I think, therefore, that we will have to work hard at this project of eliminating the bottlenecks, particularly considering the situation in the Alps.In this context, I should like to point out that unfortunately these declarations do not mention the Mont Blanc question. I must say to the Vice-President, Mrs de Palacio, that this is turning into some kind of joke: after three years we still do not know what is going to happen. Will it reopen to heavy goods vehicles or not? For now, only cars can drive through. I really would like some clarification on this. Our position as inhabitants of the Val d’Aosta is well known: we want a limit imposed, for safety reasons and for reasons of environmental pollution. All the rest is liable to be just gossip, but it creates a feeling of real uncertainty amongst the public and also, I must say, a certain mistrust of the institutions.
Mr President, today we are to discuss, and perhaps vote on, a total of three reports which deal with this subject, two of them mine. They constitute the first steps on the long, long road towards ensuring food safety for all 370 million inhabitants of Europe. We might well hope that, before the whole of this package is in place, there will be very many more of us, as citizens, who are affected by these rules. This is the first step, and it is now also a question of establishing incredibly important principles before the work as a whole begins.The first of my reports concerns foreign substances in animal nutrition. The most important changes which the Commission has proposed and which I support are to the effect that the directive should include absolutely every imaginable product intended for animal nutrition, including products used to feed what I call small animals, that is to say cats, dogs, guinea pigs etc.. The rules are designed to apply in the first place, however, to feedingstuffs for those animals we eat ourselves. After what has happened in the European market, it ought to be crystal-clear to us all now that, as human beings, we get to eat what we give to our animals.The other important principle is the so-called dilution ban. This means that, if a batch of raw materials for foodstuffs has unduly high limit values, it should not be diluted down in undamaged batches in order in that way to escape the limit values. The Commission’s proposal removes those rules which entitle local and national authorities to local derogations. My report supports this.We know that the foreign substances in question are very rarely acutely poisonous substances, but are long-term and long-lived substances which can build up, such as dioxin and aflotoxin and heavy metals such as cadmium, lead and mercury. We know that the levels of these substances are constantly increasing in our food chain. The percentages are increasing slowly and continually in the earth, in feedingstuffs and in food. It is therefore important that we start the preventive process by removing a portion of these products from the chain. The percentages must not constantly increase in the body throughout life. We know, for example, that, in the long term, cadmium obstructs the kidneys in both animals and human beings. We know that dioxin and aflotoxin are carcinogenic etc.I totally agree with all the proposals tabled by the Commission on this issue. Moreover – and this is important because it is to come up at the vote – the Commission wants to introduce something called an intervention level. For all these substances, there is, as it were, a natural background level of constant ‘white noise’. We shall never escape this altogether. We have therefore set a limit value which may not be exceeded. The intervention level is a level at which vigilance is to be exercised and provides an opportunity to launch an investigation when it is discovered that a substance in a product or in a geographical area is increasing above the background level but still remains below the level at which it must be banned, that is to say the limit at which we must intervene. This is a crucial and important point in preventive work. In the long term, it is very important that we should be able to begin an investigation in peace and quiet and try to stop the increase in a particular substance before it reaches this emergency limit value. This is something which everyone at each stage in the food chain should in fact help with. If we let the matter rest until the limit value has been reached, the measures to be taken become very drastic. It is then a case of catastrophe intervention of the ‘dioxin in Belgium’ type. It is important for us to apply the precautionary principle in such a way that we can cope successfully with increases in foreign substances.In both of these re-worked draft directives, I have tried to use a form of language which is readable. A legal text should be precise enough for it to be possible to comply with it. I also believe, however, that it is Parliament’s responsibility to try to produce laws, rules and regulations in the European Union which can be understood by our fellow citizens who have to comply with them and who need to read them. I have therefore made a lot of the language more straightforward and tried to simplify matters and make them crystal-clear.When it comes to limit values, which must be set extremely rigorously in the future to check unwelcome developments, I would ask you to take account of the problems which low limit values, for example for dioxin, will mean for, for example, fishing communities in the Baltic, in parts of the North Sea and probably in Mediterranean coastal areas. I would also ask you to take account of farmers whose fields border either very busy roads or industries which have contaminated large areas. Many of these instances of poisoning or cases in which heavy metals were dispersed occurred before there was sufficient environmental awareness and before it was known what the effects would be. We cannot find the culprits. I would ask that we take account of these individual fishermen and farmers in future because they are innocent and are being hit by financial ruin.When it comes to the directive on the official control of the field of animal nutrition, it is important that we really do have a form of inspection which is implemented and which is the same throughout the European Union. If inspection is not complied with and we are not in a position to inspect the inspectors, then all the thinking being done in connection with the safety of our fellow citizens will be undermined. The people of Europe cannot, however, properly rely upon such control’s really being carried out if there are major differences of approach between Member States and regions.The second thing we must take into consideration is the fact that differences in the application of these inspection rules will mean serious disruption of the internal market. There will be a price to pay for safe food at every stage in the chain. It would therefore be dangerous if certain countries, areas or industries were to be able to escape inspection and compete over prices at the expense of safety. That would be an extremely undesirable situation.
Mr President, Commissioner, I wish firstly to say to the rapporteur, Mr Kreissl-Dörfler, that I have rarely been involved in work on a report that has been handled as diligently and fairly as Mr Kreissl-Dörfler has handled this report. It is simply admirable, and I want to say thank you.At the same time, I would draw attention to the fact that, by now abandoning the non-vaccination policy, we are creating changes that will be very significant for those countries that export extensively to third countries. I want at the same time to say that foot and mouth disease is so infectious that anyone who believes that all the problems are solved merely by opening the way for vaccination and who is also sure of being able in future to contain a future outbreak of the disease will have to think again, for that is not the way foot and mouth disease works.I therefore choose to go on believing that it is the non-vaccination policy that we shall continue to work towards, and I acknowledge that the situation will meanwhile be one in which we shall use vaccine, as we did for example in the Netherlands, under the very proficient administration of the Dutch. Ring vaccination did prove effective as a way of containing the disease.In that connection, it is also important for me to support what was said by my colleague in the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, Mr Mulder, namely that it is important for the vaccinated animals not to remain in the food chain but to be removed from it. That is not something for which there appears to be a majority right now, but it must be remembered in this regard that the vaccinated animals are of course disease carriers, and, given that fact, it would be a disaster if any of these animals were to pass on the disease.I should also like to point out that there can be no question of imagining, as is done for example in Amendment No 11, that milk and meat from vaccinated animals can be sold freely throughout the EU. In this area, we must be very clear in demanding regionalisation so that, if such milk and meat is to be sold, it is within, and not across, national borders.Although I am aware that this is not Commissioner Byrne’s area, I shall again draw attention to the fact that there is a need for export agreements, particularly with the Americans, so that we contain the losses there might be in connection with a future epidemic of foot and mouth disease and, especially, in connection with possible vaccination. It would not of course be of help to anyone if, instead of exporting fresh produce to third countries, we were to close the doors, with the result that these products were to end up on the European market at sharply falling prices. That is not of course what farmers need in this situation. There is also a real need for the Commission to undertake serious regionalisation and to conclude agreements with the Americans.
Mr President, Commissioner, if the EU is to become the world’s most dynamic and competitive economy, the EU’s decision-makers must act consistently and quickly. This could have been an important directive for creating better preconditions for growth and for promoting restructuring within Europe’s corporate structure. It is the dynamic companies that can be restructured that create jobs. Without jobs, Europe will not survive. That is genuinely an issue in the employees’ interests.The expression ‘Much ado about nothing’ is quite a good description of this controversial directive. For fourteen years, we have tried to bring about these fair and common ground rules. In fact, we have failed, but it is nonetheless a step in the right direction.I personally have had some difficulty with this debate. In principle, my view is that the differentiated voting right does not favour the emergence of efficient companies able to compete in a global market. Over time, the various voting values tend to consolidate deficient corporate structures. I also think there are important legal objections to retroactive legislation, and I can also see the point of entrepreneurs being able to go to the stock exchange to obtain extra capital for their life’s work without losing complete control of it. In spite of this, it is incredibly important for us to obtain common corporate ground rules with a view to opening the European market to more liberal restructuring.We must, however, be able to live with this compromise. We could have obtained more, and more is what we wanted. Now, this directive is more about openness and the protection of minority shareholders, and less about takeover rules. It is, however, a step in the right direction, and I think we can support this compromise, even if it shows that it takes sixteen years for EU legislation to come into effect. An initial 14 years and then a further two years before it is incorporated. If we continue in this pattern, we shall never become dynamic and competitive.
Mr President, it may be said that, unlike everyone else, I have thought it important to take the floor at this second reading. It is quite simply because I want to take the opportunity to praise the work done by the European Women’s Lobby. It is of course important what the European political parties do to promote women in the decision-making processes and in all possible other areas. I believe, however, that it is also safe to say that, if the European Women’s Lobby were not active in this area, it would be much more difficult to push through a number of gender equality initiatives.In particular, I think there is good cause for emphasising the need that exists for the European Women’s Lobby in connection with enlargement to include the new Member States, which quite obviously have other gender equality traditions than ourselves in the current Member States. It is important for the Women’s Lobby, together with the organisations of MEPs in the individual nations, to be active so that we can continue to pursue the work concerning women, even though there are cultural differences between the new and old EU countries.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the, I would like to join in the moving tributes to President Pflimlin, and am only too pleased to extend warm congratulations to Portugal on its presidency. The past six months have certainly seen some highly creditable work on the various aspects of European integration.I mainly have in mind the activities carried out within the context of the IGC. The Liberals believe it is crucial for there to be further institutional reform before enlargement takes place. In particular, I would point out that qualified majority voting in the Council and Parliament’s codecision powers will have to be extended if we want the European Union to be more efficient, more democratic, more open and broader.The Liberals are also delighted that a solution has been found in the form of an agreement on the exchange of information concerning the taxation of income from savings. This could provide the impetus for better fiscal coordination within the Union.It is probably safe to say that the most outstanding achievements have been the decisions taken on the wider introduction of modern technology, the promotion of e-commerce and the realisation of a knowledge-based society with a view to creating more job opportunities. The decision taken by the Council to develop a system of best practice for public administration is also to be welcomed.As far as external relations are concerned, thewelcomes the idea of a summit between the European Union and the most democratically advanced countries in the western Balkans. EU policy ought perhaps to be given a higher profile over there, in support of the ongoing stabilisation process.Finally, there are two comments I would like to make. As a Belgian national, I am delighted with the progress made in respect of food safety and that an undertaking has been given to set up a central food agency before the end of this year. As an MEP I have no intention of letting the matter of the uniform statute for MEPs drop. I hope we will be able to reach agreement on this during the forthcoming French Presidency. Indeed, we must.
The Queen of the Councils of Ministers, the Ecofin, has come tumbling off her pedestal with a loud thud. In the Brussels glasshouse, this debate about the finer details of the Stability Pact is still going on, whilst normal citizens, at least in my country, the Netherlands, have for a long time been debating something else. Why do the rules we agree on apply to some countries and not to others? What about the rules we will agree on in the new constitutional treaty, on which all Dutch people are allowed to vote in a referendum? In order to gain any credibility, this constitutional treaty will need to contain tough procedures to enforce monetary rules. I am in favour of a much stronger role for the Commission. Countries that are themselves in breach of the rules should be excluded from voting on the assessment of other countries that infringe the same rules. The French and German Governments have opened Pandora's box. This may well serve a short-term interest, but they have lost all credibility as the axis of European cooperation. As such, they carry a heavy responsibility.
Mr President, the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party warmly welcomes the plan crafted by Kofi Annan yesterday in Switzerland. I congratulate Commissioner Verheugen and his team because they have played a key part in brokering the package. It is right and proper that the Commission and the Council have been proactive in seeking to apply the membership terms across the complete island of Cyprus. It is not too late for this Parliament to become more supportive of a settlement of the dispute than it has been in the past.I would like to ask all the political forces represented in this Parliament to campaign for a positive vote in the referendum. Many Cypriots require support to catch the spirit of Europe and to look forward with more self-assurance to being a reunited community.Turkey deserves our thanks for making such a vital contribution to the settlement. These events and our gratitude are not fully reflected in the Oostlander report, but it will certainly inform Parliament's decision, as we move towards December and the critical decision to open accession negotiations. Rightly we are resisting the pre-emption of that decision today. Many things will change between now and December: inside the Union we will have reached an IGC settlement that will fully prepare us for further accessions; in Turkey the AKP administration will have consolidated its legitimacy and a new reform package will have progressed through Parliament; social and economic circumstances will have improved and advances will hopefully have been made in the practical implementation of reforms; and Turkey will have continued improving its relations with its neighbours.The quiet Turkish revolution will persist, and we in the Liberal family will see the bigger picture and treat Turkey fairly and recognise what a contribution Turkey can make to the future of Europe.
We have chosen to abstain in the vote on the Prets/Pack/Iivari reports. The reason for this is that we consider that issues of culture and education should be dealt with at national level where the decisions are taken as close to the citizens as possible. We object on principle to the Pack report’s choosing a small number of schools to receive a large proportion of the total education grant from the EU. We think there are many other good schools that should be taken into consideration. For the EU to become more effective and efficient in relation to the big cross-border issues, the politics of everyday issues such as schools, the arts and youth issues must be left to the Member States. These issues must be considered at a level that is closer to the citizens.- Report: Daul (A5-0123/2004)
Mr President, Commissioner, Tunisia is a country in which there are major infringements of human rights. Sometimes the infringements appear to pass unnoticed. The opposition is persecuted, there are at least a thousand political prisoners in jail, freedom of expression is minimal and freedom of assembly is restricted. Journalists and workers for democracy are harassed, and lawyers are not permitted to work.A number of Tunisian human rights campaigners have been nominated for the Sacharov Prize, and we have criticised Tunisia on several occasions in this House. Now, there is cause to do so again.The Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party is very concerned about the proceedings against Hamma Hammami and his colleagues in the banned Communist Party. Their trial is a farce, and the way it is being conducted completely unacceptable. There have been protests from all around the world. Even in my own country, where Tunisia is rarely mentioned, there have been a number of indignant press articles in the last few days about the way in which the members of the Tunisian Communist Party are being treated.Mr Hammami, Mr Madouri and Mr Taamallah decided of their own accord to come forward and stand trial. Subsequent developments have been alarming and very far from being in accordance with the principles of a constitutional state. The three have been maltreated, they are not allowed to see their lawyers, and the trial itself is one big legal farce.We are agreed that they are prisoners of conscience who must be treated decently and in a manner appropriate to a constitutional state. The trial is to begin again on 30 March and, until then, they should be set free. Because they themselves have given themselves up, that is only right. We must send a message to Tunisia to the effect that we are keeping an eye on the country and watching the trial, which we shall be following extremely closely.The EU must address the issues of Tunisia and of human rights in the Association Agreements and in the context of cooperation. We have been silent for too long about these issues. We make tough demands on ourselves and on the candidate countries, but almost no such demands upon Tunisia.That must not continue. Human rights issues must be highlighted in our continued contacts with Tunisia. We must stop grovelling to Ben Ali. Above all, attention must be given to this case.
I am delighted to have been able to work with Mrs Buitenweg. She has done an excellent and inclusive job producing a balanced text, which usefully strengthens the Commission’s hand. This proposed directive is a landmark for Europe. It is right that Europe should be legislating to guarantee the fundamental right to dignity, irrespective of ethnicity, and not to suffer discrimination. It is also timely for Europe to legislate now with the alarming rise in the Far Right and racist violence.I want to highlight a few aspects of the text. Firstly, the very significant inclusion of indirect and institutional racism, and amendments have strengthened that aspect. Secondly, the specific inclusion of housing, health and other public authority functions, including policing. This is not interference in national responsibilities, but an assertion that the non-discriminatory delivery of these services is a European concern.Thirdly, the inclusion via Amendments Nos 15 and 29 of disguised race discrimination. My Group is not favourable to the inclusion of religion or belief in the scope of this directive because that needs much more thought. However, we believe unequal treatment should be caught if it only pretends to be based on religion or nationality but is, in fact, race discrimination pure and simple.Fourthly, the inclusion, as has already been mentioned, of incitement or pressure to discriminate – that is very important. Fifthly, the role of the European Union Monitoring Centre in assisting the Commission in monitoring the implementation of this directive – and I hope the Commission will welcome that. Sixthly, although my Group understands the thinking behind Amendment No 38, the fact that it includes private clubs or associations is rather problematical. To give you an example: I represent London and it could mean a problem for Caribbean people getting together to reminisce about life in the Caribbean in the 1950s if some white people were excluded. I think that Amendment No 38 is not well drafted.Lastly, on the adjustment of the burden of proof, and I am borrowing Mr Oostlander’s phrase here, because he is quite correct to refer to it as ‘sharing’ or a ‘distribution’ of the burden of proof. I am rather sorry that the Socialist Group insist on calling it a reversal of the burden of proof because that is slightly misleading. It applies to the limited circumstances of equal opportunities law which is civil or administrative law. My Group agrees that since the employer authority has most of the information, it must prove there has been no breach of equal treatment once the complainant has demonstrated a prima facie case.Finally, there will be more heat than light from some speakers today and I am afraid I might include Mr Helmer of whose remarks I had a foretaste last night on the way back from the delightful asparagus dinner.(Applause)
I wish to thank my friend, the Commissioner, whom I have always found very helpful. This was an extremely full and helpful reply. I am sure that Parliament is most appreciative.One matter surprised me a little, although I will read his reply in detail to study it, and this is the police unit set up within the Council. Am I right in assuming that command of a police force which is sent by us actually rests in the final analysis with the Council and not with the Commission, even though policing is demonstrably a peacekeeping and not a military operation?
Mr President, I fully support the rapporteur’s view that we must take a tough line against piracy and base our approach to it on a global strategy. In other words, we must take preventive as well as repressive measures. The consequences in economic terms are certainly not to be underestimated. According to estimates, the damage done accounts for between 5 and 7% of world trade. I would therefore ask the Commission if this problem should not be accorded more attention during the on-going negotiations at the World Trade Organisation.After all, most pirated products come from countries outside the European Union, with the damaging effects being felt here. I will give you an example: according to recent investigations, if we were to reduce piracy by 10% in the information technology sector alone, this would immediately create 250 000 jobs within the European Union.We do well to put the emphasis on prevention. The European consumer must be made to realise that purchasing counterfeit products has a damaging effect at various levels, himself included. It hampers economic growth and endangers public health and safety. Worse still, there is a growing conviction that piracy is in the hands of organised criminals, who make a living out of it and engage in money laundering.The action plan for combating organised crime made reference to this as far back as June 1997, as well as calling upon both the Council and Commission to put common provisions in place in the fight against organised crime pertaining to counterfeiting.This report has come not a moment too soon. It is a sound report. If the single market and free trade are to function effectively, then creativity and innovation must be stimulated and not crippled by nefarious practices.
We have voted in favour of Mr Cashman’s report on new clearer rules for citizens’ access to official documents in the EU’s institutions. The compromise that has now been adopted by the European Parliament is an important step along the way to increased openness and improved efficiency in the institutions. Moreover, the new rules are clearly better than the lawless situation in respect of public access to documents that currently prevails. At the same time, we nonetheless see a number of problems with the new rules on public access to documents.Sensitive documents that are classified as secret, for example with reference to general security, are exempted from the principle of public access and do not need to be logged. The author of a sensitive document is the person who decides whether the recipient may make it available to others. These rules are in total conflict with the Swedish principle of public access to official records that has characterised Swedish government for over 250 years. The Swedish Presidency has asserted that the special rules concerning sensitive documents will only cover documents concerning foreign and security policy. However, we see a great risk that sensitive documents may very well also come to include documents that concern other areas, such as the Schengen cooperation and the common policy on refugees.Moreover, we are concerned that the Swedish constitution, with its roots dating back to 1766, will come under threat as a result of unclear EU rules. The introduction to the Regulation states that the purpose is not to change existing legislation in the Member States. At the same time, the Commission forced through the deletion of a reference to national legislation right at the last minute. Nonetheless, we presume that the Commission will keep its promise and maintain the Member States’ right to take decisions independently concerning the provision of documents. Throughout the decision-making process, the Commission has worked against increased openness and access for its citizens in order instead to defend the classifying of documents. This suggests that the old-fashioned Commission is still characterised by bureaucracy and an unwillingness to change.Hopefully the new Regulation on citizens’ access to documents is an important step on the way towards even clearer rules capable of forming a basis for a modernised administration in which openness and access are a matter of course. The Regulation states that the rules will be reviewed in January 2004 at the latest. We are voting in favour of the report today in the conviction that this is just the first step towards a more open EU. The  Group will be pushing the issue further.
I too should like to congratulate Mrs Kratsa-Tsagaropoulou on her sound report and, above all, would advise the Commission again to read it very carefully, particularly the statistical summaries, which paint a lamentable picture of the impact of women in rural areas. Women have far too little power; far too few of them are at the helm of businesses, and in my country, the Netherlands, with 6% of female business managers, they are worse off than anywhere else; we should hang our heads in shame.Moreover, one in two women farmers fall within the spouse or partner category, which is particularly detrimental to their entitlement to social security. That should change; in that respect, I totally agree with what Mrs Lulling said about finally adopting the recommendations of 1997.I should like, for a moment, to dwell upon the rural policy regulation. Agricultural policy has indeed changed recently, and I do not know whether we should be that pleased with every aspect of this change. When the whole dossier is finally analysed, the rural policy regulation appears to have become the cuckoo in the nest. Mr Olsson too has already indicated in his report on rural policy how important this can be, for example, in order to give the switch-over to other sources of income, such as, agro-tourism, care farms, new energy sources, organic farming, local services and cultural manifestations a shot in the arm. That is where opportunities lie, particularly for women. This has already been said by other speakers and I should like to add something.There are vast areas in Europe with large cities. Particularly rural areas near large cities can develop a raft of special services, and so I urge that this rural regulation should include a rural policy criterion in relation to large cities. I really think it is worth giving serious thought to this as a committee, and I have also raised questions in writing on this matter.I should like to take this opportunity to warn against certain forms of rural pauperisation. Although buildings, in particular, do, in fact, form part of the cultural heritage, they are in a bad state of repair in many areas. I think that a sound rural policy could save a great deal, and especially for women, there are many opportunities to use these buildings for new services, such as cultural events, receiving tourists, and so on.I was disappointed when the Commissioner said that he could not give any guarantees for channelling the resources from the CAP leg to the second pillar. I know that the Commission wanted to put aside more resources for this in the first instance and that the Council cut these back. I also know therefore, that we must sound the alarm, particularly in our own country, but nevertheless, I hope that the Commission will continue to insist on a greater shift towards the rural policy regulation.
Mr President, in Italy you often maintain that you are exposed to political persecution by your critics. That will not happen in this House. Your work will, however, be scrutinised carefully, for there is no immunity in this House against political blunders and infringements. This autumn, the EU is to unite around an asylum and immigration policy based upon humanitarianism and shared humanity. That is something you did not say very much about in your speech, Mr Berlusconi. Success demands clear leadership that can act with legitimacy and authority. I must unfortunately ask myself the question as to whether the Italian Government really is capable of shouldering that responsibility today. One of your own ministers, mentioned earlier in this House, demands that the police use live ammunition upon refugees seeking freedom in your country. That is something you must now clearly reject.Your own role as Italian media proprietor has led to the government directing the content of both the private press and of public television. That is a very worrying development that affects the whole of the EU and that would not have been accepted if it had happened in any of the EU’s new Member States. The gloomy question we now have to ask ourselves is whether Italy is a country that fulfils the political Copenhagen criteria. May you demonstrate that we critics and sceptics are wrong. I nonetheless wish you good luck over the next six months.
Mr President, we have made a considerable number of requests of the candidate countries – we have set a whole series of criteria – but from time to time it is good to reflect on our duties, and I should like to mention three of these.First of all we need to ensure that the public understands what is at stake. Here it seems to me that there is a lack of information in our countries. Secondly, we need to rethink cohesion policy, taking into account the points mentioned by the Commission in its second report. But we should have one priority: to bring the costs of enlargement under control. Finally, we need to reflect on the issue of federalism and democracy in an enlarged European Union. It is true that this is what the Convention is now doing on a daily basis. Nevertheless, it remains the key problem: we need more democracy in Europe.
Mr President, I too would like to begin by thanking Mr Cunha for producing such a worthwhile report and by wishing him well in his new role.Our debate takes place in a context where, first, some stocks in certain northern waters are in crisis and others are endangered. Second, many more are being over-exploited on a global basis. In addition, a report published last week by the International Food Policy Research Institute indicates that, if China is included, developing countries now account for more than 70% of the production of fish for food including both wild fisheries and aquaculture. The consequences are that the EU is dependent on imports of fish and that many EU fishers pursue their activities in other waters.The  accepts, therefore, that there is merit in negotiating fisheries partnership agreements with third countries, rather than leaving matters to bilateral arrangements which may lack consistency both between each other and in supporting the requirements of sustainable development. We do, however, have very strong views about the nature of any agreements made by the EU. First, the agreements reached should be genuine partnership ones and of mutual benefit. We believe that our amendment to paragraph 7 gives fuller expression to this idea than the original paragraph. Second, the agreement should be both responsible and transparent in budgetary terms, so we have amendments calling for renewal of agreements to be dependent on evidence that past monies have been spent as intended. We also call for an equitable - that is just to say a fair or just - sharing of payments by the EU vessel owners involved.On paragraph 11, whilst it may be right to forecast an increase in the number of agreements reached, we cannot be certain of this and would prefer by oral amendment to replace the words 'the increase' with 'any increase'.Third, the agreement should promote sustainability. We are pleased with the extent to which the report makes reference to the principles involved and hope to see these built on where the details of any future agreement are concerned, notably by introducing specific provisions for protecting the environment.I would urge the House to support both this report and their amendments to it. As Mr Stevenson has already said, we must ensure that we do not try to solve our domestic problems by exporting them to developing countries. Experience already tells us just how counterproductive such an approach would be. Indeed, wherever we come from in the EU we have a very strong interest in ensuring the sustainability of fisheries not only in our own waters but beyond.
Mr President, on a point of order, I should like to ask you to write to President Bush and the Governor of Texas to protest against the execution by lethal injection of the British citizen, Jackie Elliott, last week, despite mounting evidence that he was innocent of the crime for which he had been convicted and was on death row for 16 years. There were numerous protests from the United Kingdom and people in prominent positions, and there was new evidence from police reports that pointed to other more likely suspects for the 1986 murder of which he was convicted, as well as urgent requests for crucial DNA testing.The Texas authorities pressed ahead with the scheduled execution, despite the fact that a number of key legal appeals had still to be heard by the Texas Criminal Court of Appeals. His local Member of Parliament - a senior cabinet minister - led the protests. This signals to the world a curious sort of respect by the American justice system for the rule of law and human rights. Let us at least ensure that such injustices do not go unnoticed.
The VVD delegation, which attaches importance to European action in the areas of immigration and employment opportunities, will be voting in favour of the Moraes Report. It will not, however, be voting in favour of all the amendments that have been tabled, some of which violate the subsidiarity principle, one example of this being European interference in local elections.
Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking Mrs Hautala for the huge amount of work she has done on this report, and also the Commission for having made an active contribution to its success. It is therefore not only out of politeness that I say this but in genuine recognition of the fact that there is someone who has in actual fact been able to make a difference in this area and has demonstrated in practice that an individual MEP too can set a good agenda.I think that, with this report and the work that has been done, we have passed a milestone in the EU’s journey to equality. We have, first of all, arrived at a definition of what sexual harassment really is, and that is very useful. There are a number of countries which really had not adopted a position on this issue before. We have also obtained a ban on discrimination against women who are pregnant or who have recently given birth and, in certain cases, also against men on paternity leave, if there is national legislation on this subject. Finally, we have obtained the option of making positive special arrangements in cases where these are required by one or other gender. All in all, I think the result is splendid.We now come to the series of commitments assumed by the Member States in connection with this directive, and I want specifically to highlight the equality monitoring bodies, as they are called. At a recent meeting with the candidate countries, the latter were very much occupied by precisely that issue because they have a lack of data and because it is necessary for them to have means of putting pressure on their own governments with a view to acquiring this data. I also believe, however, that we have to say that we shall be keeping an eye on this issue in our own countries, because it is something that the Member States can easily avoid tackling. I have unfortunately experienced a little of this in my own country, but I will not labour that subject any more. I nonetheless believe that it is up to all of us to keep an eye on this matter so that we are both of help to the candidate countries and assume responsibility ourselves in our own countries.
Mr President, my group is very much aware of the importance of the EU-Mexico free trade partnership agreement to both partners and backs the rapporteur's initiative on most points. Mexico is the European Union's most important trading partner in Latin America after Brazil, and I am particularly proud that Europe has reached a result that goes beyond NAFTA privileges in a number of areas which are good for Europe but also good for Mexico.We consider this agreement a milestone in future relations with Latin American countries. In the context of today's debate, the European Liberals would like particularly to stress the importance of the standard human rights clause in this agreement, especially respect for democratic principles and fundamental human rights. We would like to underline how vital it is to monitor the human rights situation in Mexico as I have seen with my own eyes. In this context I find the rapporteur's proposal to proceed to a reform of Articles 39 and 59 of the global agreement judicious. A side agreement on cooperation on human rights is to be envisaged. Our main hope is that the opening up of the Mexican economy will contribute towards economic and social development in Chiapas. We declare our willingness to start this process and I hope that the march of Marcos on Mexico City will mean a breakthrough in peace. It is now up to President Fox to make what he promised the European Parliament delegation during his campaign come true. I will follow it closely.
The importance of renewable energy and increasing its use in Europe are at the basis of the measure we are examining at second reading.I would like to reiterate, on this occasion, my satisfaction at the united effort that sets the important figure of 12% as the target for the share of the European electricity market produced from renewable sources which also benefit the environment to be reached by 2010: we know how topical these issues are, especially in relation to climate change.This means that the ‘white gold’, the water used in mountainous areas of Europe to generate hydroelectric power, will clearly acquire greater value as a fundamental resource for the mountain economy. I am pleased that, as recorded in the Minutes, some of the improvements I suggested figure decisively in the text.This will make it possible – a substantial, tangible example, albeit on a small scale – for my Valle d’Aosta, an Alpine region par excellence, to focus on and invest in the hydroelectric sector, after being deprived for 40 years of a great asset in terms of the wealth of the local economy by the nationalisation and monopoly of the electricity sector in Italy, a situation which is only now being remedied thanks to the European impetus, which is opening the doors once again for regional competences granted, in the case of my Valle d’Aosta, by the Statute of autonomy.In this sense, it is a good thing that the European Union is attaching due importance to that – by definition – renewable source, hydroelectric power, providing security and incentive mechanisms on the market which will certainly benefit the mountainous areas as well, particularly those where the electricity companies are directly managed by the local communities.
To impose a total ban on snuff in the EU, at the same time as cigarettes and other tobacco products are permitted throughout the Union, is illogical. The ban on snuff, which applies in all EU countries except for Sweden, ought therefore to be lifted.The advantage of snuff is that using it does not affect the environment. While smoking causes suffering and illnesses even among people who do not smoke, especially among people with allergies, it is only the snuff taker himself who is exposed to possible ill effects.Snuff is addictive. The tobacco industry should not, therefore, be allowed to market snuff as something healthy. The Marketing Directive, which will shortly be banning tobacco advertising within the EU, must be safeguarded and apply to all tobacco products.
Madam President, it is a matter of regret and perhaps even of shame that it took the events of 11 September to push European governments into tackling effectively a problem which has plagued our continent for over a generation. In 1997 in Amsterdam, and again in 1999 in Tampere in Finland, the Heads of State and Government committed themselves to tackling terrorism. Our review of progress early this year showed that they had done nothing about it, which was why we as a Parliament brought forward a report calling on them to take action. The events of 11 September have fortunately brought such action and I look forward to travelling to Washington shortly to talk about common action between the European Union and the United States of America.I would like to thank the political groups in this House for their cooperation in drawing up this report, particularly the Members from Spain. In my report, I broadly welcome the Commission proposals for a Council framework decision on combating terrorism and for a European arrest warrant. The amendments which I put forward seek to restrict the list of crimes defined as terrorist crimes and covered by the European arrest warrant to the most serious cross-border criminal offences, and if I may quote Amendment No 16, it specifies those crimes 'which aim to destroy the fundamental freedoms, democracy, respect for human rights, civil liberties and the rule of law on which our societies are based'. We seek too to insert safeguards for civil liberties by basing action clearly on international human rights documents, by reinforcing the principle of ne bis in idem, by taking account of time spent in detention awaiting trial and by allowing Member States refusal to extradite when there are manifestly sound reasons for doing so, including in those cases where a person found guilty could face a penalty of death. Moreover, we seek to provide aids to victims of terrorism and their families.I shall ask the House to accept one amendment, which was submitted after the deadline and which takes account of the most recent developments in Council. One Member State is threatening to block progress towards a European arrest warrant. There is a method – not one which I recommend – but one which may be needed in extremis, in order to press ahead, and that is to invoke Article 40 of the Treaty allowing reinforced cooperation between a certain number of Member States. Terrorism is a supranational challenge and calls for a supranational response. We cannot allow the blockage of one Member State to prevent common action in fighting it.When we met in this Chamber, on 12 September, we had a debate in which I remember Mr Poettering and many others said that we were all Americans. Since then, we have discovered that we must first be Europeans. We acknowledge that recognition of judicial judgements and judicial standards requires trust in each other's systems, but not blind trust, and for that reason I have put forward an amendment calling for urgent measures to improve judicial systems in our Member States, to encourage benchmarking, to encourage exchange of best practice. The process of creating an area of freedom, security and justice is similar to that of creating the single market, but it is more urgent and, moreover, we are dealing not with the freedom of movement of goods, services or capital, but with the freedom of people.Theand other political groups are saying, don't go ahead until you are sure that everybody's judicial standards are perfect. Majority opinion, however, on the Committee recognises that the scope of the challenge we face and the historical imperative are such that we must press ahead with these measures with prudence, and with vigilance, but also with determination.We must ensure effective action against terrorists and yet we must not deny legitimate political expression of grievances. I was surprised to read in El País this morning an interpretation of one amendment, which I support, that it would outlaw Herri Batasuna. I do not interpret the amendment in this way, nor would such an amendment be necessary to target those involved in supporting terrorist acts. Other provisions in what we are proposing do that. I would say to colleagues, and particularly to our Spanish colleagues, that in our determination to tackle terrorism, we must acknowledge that terrorists sometimes express political grievances, and that these require a political response.Council is discussing the proposals put forward by the Commission; Parliament, which desperately needs powers of codecision, may be reconsulted on this matter. We are determined to assist governments in their work and yet maintain the delicate balance between the security needs of our citizens and preservation of their democratic freedoms. In this, cooperation in Justice and Home Affairs has received quite a boost. Whatever it was that we planned at Amsterdam, the paradox is that events are what drives Europe forward: just as Mr Haider's election led us to adopt effective legislation against racism and xenophobia, so it may be that Mr bin Laden has done much for European Union integration.May I say, finally, what a pleasure it is to see you as a fellow Liberal Democrat in the Chair in this session. I wish you a successful debate.
Mr President, in the eyes of the surrounding world, the EU’s work on human rights is of very great significance. Rogue states, which we condemn in our reports, despatch their ambassadors with a view to having references to their countries removed at any price. Conversely, a resolution by Parliament sometimes gives hope and renewed courage to those throughout the world who are imprisoned, tortured and oppressed or who are engaged in struggle.Committed people look to the EU to play an active role in working for a better world. They are sometimes disappointed when we choose to close our eyes to serious crimes because trade policy or strategic interests come before such gross violations. We must therefore never flinch from emphasising human rights in contacts with countries such as China, Iran, Cuba, Syria, Zimbabwe, etc.Almost five years ago, I myself wrote a report on the annual report on human rights in which I drew attention to the subject of violence against women. I think it logical that we continue down this road in the last report of this term of office. The fact that, in 2004, we are having a debate about sexual violence, genital mutilation, the sex trade, the rape of young girls and the lack of AIDS medication not belonging in a report on human rights shows that we have quite a long way to go in this House too.I do not agree with Mrs De Keyser regarding all the details of her report, but it is important and only right to highlight these issues. It is very odd that there should be protests from the right wing about these issues not belonging in a report on human rights.
I welcome the fact that the Zabell report tries to address the problem of intentional doping and proceeds from the presumption of innocence based on the charter of human rights. Unfortunately, UK athletes – Linford Christie, Dougie Walker and Gary Cadogan – were not presumed to be innocent by the International Athletics Association. Despite evidence, based on research by Aberdeen University, that nandrolene could be produced by a combination of dietary supplements and vigorous training, Mark Richardson is still waiting, eight days before the Olympics, in the Olympic village not knowing whether he is going to compete or not. Linford Christie has campaigned throughout his career against doping in sport. He would not do anything now to jeopardise that. These cases demonstrate the need for the World Anti-Doping Agency to harmonise disciplinary procedure that would safeguard the rights of athletes but, at the same time, swiftly punish those who knowingly take drugs and are guilty of taking drugs.
Mr President, this week we are debating military conflicts in two places: Chechnya and Palestine. Both have worsened since the Western World declared war on terrorism. It seems almost as if the dominant power in each conflict has taken advantage of the anti-terrorist cause to enhance its strategic position. The impact on the lives of those caught in the crossfire, both literally and metaphorically, has been devastating.For reasons of history, humanity and security, we have a duty to intervene to prevent the fighting. Diplomacy, thus far, has failed, whether sponsored by the United Nations, the United States of America, the European Union or the neighbouring states. It is probably the Saudi peace plan which currently offers the most promising pointers to peace. The warring parties themselves offer little hope of a solution. Neither Mr Sharon nor Mr Arafat can secure peace, just as certainly as neither can impose it. Mr Arafat's record of involvement in terrorism and his continued acquiescence in abominable Palestinian terrorist acts are at least in part to blame for the current situation.The best way forward, in the view of Liberal Democrats in this House, is to establish an immediate embargo on arms exports to Israel and Palestine, and to persuade the United Nations to mount an international mission to send troops to the region to enforce peace.(Applause)Only then might the extremists be moved aside and the moderates be brought together by an honest broker in a political process in which the arguments of force give way to the force of arguments. Reckless military adventurism on one side and cynical acceptance of terrorism on the other offer only further bloodshed and misery and the deepening of mutual hatreds, which will delay and render more difficult the achievement of lasting peace.The recent Israeli military incursions into Palestinian territory have been as shocking as they have been self-defeating. The West does have levers of pressure. You, Mr Solana, must employ them. An urgent meeting of the EU-Israel Association Council should be called. On the agenda you should have Israel's refusal to allow our representatives to meet Mr Arafat; you should have its wanton destruction of EU-funded infrastructure and its violation of human rights provisions in Article No 2 of the Association Agreement. You might talk to Colin Powell tomorrow about threatening suspension of USD 3 billion of aid annually to Israel. Human rights observers should be deployed to document the plight of innocent Palestinian citizens, who suffer daily disrupted lives, random harassment, gratuitous humiliation and, in some cases, torture and death.The international community is clear on where the borders must be drawn to secure the co-existence in two states of six million Israeli and some 4 million Palestinian citizens. We cannot stand by while United Nations resolutions are flouted by an aggressive policy of settlements and a refusal to seek peace. When international law is so blatantly ignored, such bloodshed, as we have seen, is unavoidable. Those responsible must, eventually, be brought to justice. On Thursday of this week, the statute for a permanent International Criminal Court will enter into force. From Sabra and Chatila 20 years ago, to what is happening in Jenin this afternoon, Mr Sharon might reflect on whether he wishes to be among its first clients.(Applause)
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the Bowis report forms a solid basis for further work and I believe, Commissioner, that there is now not one single reason why you, so to speak, could not produce the legislative proposal tomorrow, for the large majority of Parliament is now agreed on the way forward. Mr Bowis, the fact that it is such a large majority, is partly and mainly thanks to you. You are an extremely skilled diplomat.I will not dwell on the heart of the matter, since we are all agreed on that. I would like to bring a few minor aspects to the fore. I have tabled an amendment which is not unimportant, in my view, although Mr Whitehead suggested it was redundant. The authority must be independent and that is why I think that ‘close ties’, as stated in Paragraph 12, should actually not be allowed, not with anybody – not with consumer associations or anybody else. I therefore believe that your Amendment No 11 and my Amendment No 17 are perfectly reconcilable.Secondly, in addition to the authority, there are a number of important things which need to happen. I would single out two of these: we urgently need PCB standards at European level, as well as a positive list of ingredients of animal feed. Commissioner, I would say that there is no time to lose and, ladies and gentlemen, our role in the European Parliament is also vital for, by studying the annual report and interviewing the director of the authority, we will need to ensure that the authority works, because if it does not, if it does not do its work properly, we will end up footing the bill politically speaking. I believe that is something which we will need to keep an eye on in the years ahead.
Mr President, the abuse of alcohol by children and young people is a serious problem, and it is a growing problem, but for me it is not an EU problem. Mr Prodi said last year, here in this Chamber, that, out of consideration for the EU’s legitimacy in the eyes of the people, Parliament and the EU should not become involved in all manner of ridiculous matters. The abuse of alcohol by children and young people is no laughing matter – on the contrary – but the problem falls within the province of families, the local community and the Member States. We are talking about the principle of subsidiarity.There are sensible things in what is being proposed. We are discussing the provision of information to young people and the risks of alcohol, but the proposal also contains so much that is over-protective and so many admonishments, and these are aspects I cannot support. The EU must not dictate the frameworks for the cultural differences in the Member States. In fact, the EU must ensure that the differences are respected and, therefore, the advertising of beer on English television must be permitted, even if this might be unacceptable on Spanish television. We must respect diversity and strengthen the principle of subsidiarity, partly out of consideration for the legitimacy of the EU.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to congratulate Mr Savary on his determined efforts and very successful report on this important but problematic subject. This report, together with those reports aimed at liberalising the railways that were adopted last week, is a breakthrough in the development of the European railways. The idea got under way during the Finnish Presidential term, and was continued with successfully by France.Improved competitiveness in the railways is vital to relieve road and air congestion. The development of rail transport is also a step towards more environmentally sustainable transport systems. Improved interoperability of the railway system is a necessary requirement for the whole rail package to succeed. There have been far too many long delays with regard to this matter, but now Mr Savary has managed to untie this difficult knot. There is still much to be done but now the work is off to a good start.Our group supports Mr Savary’s proposal to adopt the Council common position as it stands. It has taken account of Parliament’s important amendments and thus the proposal should be swiftly advanced. At the same time we must remember that the interoperability of the rail networks is a long-term project. For that reason, it is important that a timetable is put in place to carry out the work and that we determine just which networks should be given priority.I would further like to thank Mr Savary for also having understood the special needs of Finland. The compromise achieved regarding the use of Russian railway carriages and wagons between Finland and Russia will not put the aims of the report in jeopardy, but will ensure that transport on the Union’s eastern border will continue undisturbed. I believe that the importance this decision will have for the whole of the Union will be clearly evident when the time comes that north-western Russia’s massive wealth of natural resources starts to be exploited seriously.
Madam President, it is remarkable that the European Parliament has not yet adopted a position on the possible release of Mr Pinochet, despite the fact that international arrest warrants have already been issued. Since the Belgian Government’s appeal to a higher court was declared admissible last week and since the decision has essentially not yet been taken, it is important for Parliament to at last give out a strong message, a message which should signify that nobody can escape a just trial. It is inconceivable that the European Parliament, which quite rightly pays so much attention to respecting human rights, should fail to adopt a clear stance on this.
Mr President, as an Italian and a Member of the European Parliament I feel embarrassed and worried but at the same time proud that my country, Italy, is today taking on the leadership of the European Union. I feel embarrassed at all the criticism, censure, sarcasm and derision levelled at my country for what has, I regret to say, quite rightly been called the Italian anomaly, or the serious conflict of interests that involves our Prime Minister. I also feel humiliated, because I recognise indeed that, whenever our Prime Minister expresses an idea, illustrates a proposal or presents a measure on the economy, finance, information or especially justice, we never know whether in doing so he is thinking of our interests or his own and those of his friends. Or rather, we in Italy know only too well, unfortunately, given what he has done up to now.I am worried because I do not want the conflict of interests virus that is humiliating Italian democracy to spread to a European level, because this is the real cancer for democracy, Mr Berlusconi, not the work of the judges, as you foolishly stated the other day. I am, however, also proud – yes, proud – because, thank God, Italy’s institutions are not just made up of the Prime Minister and the friends he has brought in with him, especially in the Italian Parliament. That is why I am sure that Italy’s leadership of the European Union will, as a whole, with the involvement and collaboration of all the institutions, including the oppositions, rise to the occasion despite the Italian anomaly, which I am glad to say is transient.
Mr President, the rapporteur should be congratulated on his wide-ranging and important report and he has rightly identified the problems of transposition and application of Community law, mainly with regard to directives. But we may have seen nothing yet, because we are moving into an era of new legislation – the era of co-regulation. Will this in future form part of Community law, whose application and uniformity we should be looking out for?In its White Paper on governance, the Commission states that co-regulation will not be appropriate where rules need to apply in a uniform way. Nor will it be appropriate where fundamental rights or political choices are called into question. Yet this year we had to produce Parliament's own-initiative report on the EEJ-Net, a European alternative dispute network set up by the Commission using a co-regulatory approach. Yet what could be more fundamental than our citizens' access to justice or the way that law is applied and dispensed? Will we be watching every arbitrator and regulator to make sure that Community law is correctly applied? We have enough trouble at the moment with the normal judiciary.We need to be aware of these issues. They are fundamental to our citizens and also to the rights of this Parliament as a co-legislator, not to mention their possible fragmentary effect on the achievements of the internal market if they are not very carefully monitored by this Parliament.
Mr President, UNRWA ought really to celebrate its fifty-year anniversary by disbanding itself. For five long decades the way back for the Palestinians was closed off and the way forward was blocked too. All that time UNRWA was doing extremely useful work under extraordinarily difficult circumstances. All the endeavours to bring education and health care up to standard, no matter how valuable in themselves, were still unable to solve the political problem of the refugees.UNWRA has suffered a great deal on account of financial problems in recent years. Increased costs were not covered by additional revenue. Consequently, it had no alternative but to develop illegal secondary economies, much to the discomfiture of the Palestinians. Unfortunately there is nothing about the refugees in the Wye agreement. The Palestinians now feel desperate, forgotten about and left to their fate. Uncertainty about the future, high unemployment and restricted mobility cause tension and fear, which creates a breeding ground for fundamentalism.Therefore, giving support to UNWRA as proposed does not just serve humanitarian ends but is also of political importance, i.e. by bringing stability to the region. Israel must demonstrate more flexibility in the peace process. The Arab host countries, in turn, must take responsibility and stop misusing the Palestinian problem for political ends. They must assist in integrating the Palestinians into their country. The European Union, in its turn, should provide financial assistance here.Up until now, Europe has not known how to convert its financial assistance into political influence. It has given the refugees financial assistance for 25 years. It is high time for Europe to at last bring its political influence to bear in order to make UNRWA redundant once and for all.
Mr President, colleagues, it is always a pleasure to be debating with each other in such cosy circumstances late at night. I certainly did not know when I took on the rapporteurship of something as obscure as local loop unbundling that it would be quite so controversial and so complicated as it has proved nor that our discussions would culminate in such nocturnal circumstances. The local loop unbundling regulation is an important piece of legislation which completes unfinished business from the past but also represents an important step forward into the future.It completes unfinished business in the past because it is enforcing competition in the final segment of the telecommunications world which until now had escaped earlier liberalising European measures. At the same time, by ensuring that access to the local loop – the last mile of so-called copper wire – is now open to all new market entrants and is not the exclusive province of the so-called incumbent operators, the regulation will act as a significant boost for increased choice of non-voice services for consumers. It should lower prices for consumers and act as a boost to the take-up of new fancy broadband services and so point Europe very firmly in a dynamic, forward-looking direction.As such, it will help fulfil the promise made in Lisbon in March of this year when a number of ambitious targets were set, which, it is said, will help ensure that the gap that has opened between the European Union and the United States in the information economy is closed as soon as possible. The procedure we had to follow, in order to act as quickly as possible upon the conclusions of the Lisbon Summit and the proposal of the Commission in July, has been unusual.I am told that if we vote on the report tomorrow and adopt our report as voted in the committee it will be the fastest piece of legislation of this type ever processed by the European Union institutions. This has only been possible because of an unprecedented degree of cooperation. Firstly, cooperation with the Commission – and I would like to thank Commissioner Liikanen and all his extremely good officials who have been working on this for their assiduous help throughout the process. They really have provided us all with an invaluable service.I would also like to thank the Council for their cooperation, firstly driven by the mandate in the conclusions in the Lisbon summit but also by a particularly effective series of French Presidency initiatives in the Council of Ministers and last and by no means least I would like to express thanks for cooperation within this House.I have had the privilege and the benefit of working with a number of colleagues of all groups who have pulled together in the committee to produce the report which we will be voting on tomorrow. I would like to thank all of them for the great cooperation which they have extended to me.It has not been easy: firstly, because the procedure is difficult, it is new. Those of us who have worked on it all agree that if this sets a precedent for the future, we could perhaps consider promulgating some rules which will facilitate this kind of process in the future but also some rules on substance. This is a measure which is clearly going to prove to be painful to some of the incumbent operators involved and I understand that a number of colleagues have been in discussions with incumbent operators and I am very grateful to them for conveying their concerns to me and also working with me to find an appropriate way forward.We can be proud of the work that we have completed and that I hope we will complete by our vote tomorrow. It shows that, even in difficult and controversial areas of policy such as this, this House is able to act decisively and clearly when it needs to and for that I would once again like to extend my thanks to all concerned.
Mr President, I am informed that on 29 December 2003, at approximately 2 a.m., the Casal Jaume I Cultural Centre in Russafa, a district of Valencia, was attacked by persons unknown. All Casal Jaume I centres are members of the Acció Cultural del País Valencià association, whose goals are to study, support and promote the cultural heritage of Valencia.Acció Cultural has more than 9 000 members. Many young people are also members of Casal Jaume I centres. The following day a press conference was held in the centre and the reporters could see the damage for themselves. The Secretary-General of Acció Cultural referred to 21 attacks since July 2001 on the Casal Jaume I centres in Valencia and the nearby towns of Llíria, Carlet, Sueca and Vila-Real. Even the headquarters of the Bloc Nacionalista Valencià party has been attacked. In Valencia, there is continuing violence against parties and associations promoting and supporting cultural heritage and progressive values. All those attacks have been reported to the police. Violence is now on the increase; some people have been threatened, others attacked. To date, the response of the government has been inadequate.
Madam President, I want to thank the committee and its chairman for a well-considered report. The increasing flow of refugees in recent years shows the need for a common refugee policy both within the EU and globally.The various Member States’ more or less panicky reactions faced with people’s desire to find sanctuary and a new life in Europe have struck a very discordant note, given the humanitarian values the EU stands for. There have been many tragedies on the EU’s borders, involving vessels that have gone down, desperate refugees who have hidden in containers and refugees who have tried to swim their way to Europe.On many occasions, I have felt depressed by quite a few of the proposals from the Member States and the Commission whose main aim seems to have been to stop, impede, deport and expel. Those who have spoken of an EU that is developing into a fortress Europe are, unfortunately, not completely mistaken.Against this background, this proposal for a directive is along the right lines. The rights of the individual are emphasised, and repressive measures do not dominate. It is certainly true that common asylum rules are needed within the EU, but there also needs to be scope for individual Member States to make more generous assessments. The committee has guaranteed this scope. The committee also strengthens the rights of the individual under the Geneva Convention in relation to the position of children, the ability to hold refugees in custody, greater knowledge on the part of those who have to deal with matters relating to refugees and reasonable periods within which applications are to be processed. Quite simply, it is a question of increased legal certainty.I am nonetheless a little uneasy about the Council’s future handling of these issues. We must safeguard the absolute requirement under the Geneva Convention that every refugee shall have his case examined individually, just as Baroness Ludford said.As I see it, there are no safe countries. If, as Europeans, we are not completely to forfeit our good name, a different refugee policy based upon respect, openness and legal certainty is required. It is not countries such as Nauru that can be expected to assume responsibility for people fleeing from barbaric regimes such as that in Afghanistan. Empathy and humanitarianism are required even more now, a week after the tragedy in the United States.
Mr President, we have spoken much in recent weeks about the enlargement of the European Union. That enlargement extends our borders to Russia, to Ukraine and Belarus – it is hardly surprising if issues of border control and immigration policy are centre stage. But when it comes to immigration, no country is an island. A real debate is needed at European level, and not the kind of distasteful sloganeering that we suffered at the Seville European Council.As a policy issue, immigration is simple. Unless we open our markets to goods from poorer countries, thus helping their people to prosper, we will take their people. And unless we set our own immigration policy, either anarchy will reign or – more worryingly – criminal gangs of human traffickers will set that policy for us. What a pity that our governments did not listen a little more carefully to the advice of the Canadian Government about how, if we wished to get on top of the trafficking in people, we should open our front door a little to legal migration, in order to close our back door more effectively against illegal migration.I congratulate Commissioner Vitorino on the proposals that he brought forward a couple of years ago at the beginning of this whole debate. I deeply regret that Member States did not adopt them as proposed. The debate has been dominated by the repressive aspects of migration policy and has shown scant regard for its humanitarian aspects. The strategy has hardly been one of small steps as the Commissioners suggested – one of ‘faltering feet’ is perhaps a better description.I had the honour of chairing the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs in this House for the first two years of that discussion. I regret not only the EU’s failure to establish effective and complete policies on immigration and asylum, but also its failure to ensure responsible stewardship of our economy which is intimately linked with immigration.The Commission’s review of the European economy in 2002 shows the devastating economic consequences of stagnating population growth, which could lead to the rate of potential economic growth falling by 1% of GDP per annum for the next 50 years. What should we do? Well, exhortations to procreation have never been known to work. The evidence suggests that the higher our living standards become, the less people will want to have children. So for economic reasons too, we need a mature debate about a policy of managed migration. I hope that this afternoon’s debate will contribute to achieving some joined-up thinking on immigration policy.I have been asked to report on the readmission agreement with Hong Kong. I regret that Parliament has been neither consulted nor kept informed during the negotiations on this readmission agreement, that we find ourselves in the position of having to deliver our opinion after the agreement has been initialled – and, moreover, after the Agriculture Council on 23 December adopted the decision authorising its signing.According to Rule 97 of our Rules of Procedure, throughout the negotiations – and here I quote: ‘The Commission and the Council shall inform the committee responsible regularly and thoroughly of the progress of the negotiations’. I deplore the fact that did not happen, all the more so because this is the first readmission agreement negotiated by the Community. In the case of future agreements, I ask that Parliament be kept informed about the state of negotiations by the Commission and the Council.Readmission is about the return of persons found irregularly on our territory. Few in this House would deny the need for a policy of return. It is an integral part of any credible immigration policy. Effective return safeguards the integrity of asylum policies and of regular immigration programmes and it acts as a deterrent to irregular migration. Return has risen to prominence essentially because of the way in which our over-stretched asylum systems are being used as alternatives to a closed-door immigration policy. When the Council adopted its return action programme at the end of last month, I am sure it took into account the many advantages of assisted voluntary return, as well as the possibility of forced return.The advantage of assisted voluntary return is that it permits return in a non-punitive and a cost-effective way. It has been shown to work in Germany, in the United Kingdom, in the Netherlands and in Belgium. It is more convenient and it is less costly, both financially and politically, than deportation. It has been almost exclusively a European phenomenon and we need more research on the sustainability of return under AVR programmes.But our policy needs to be rational, driven not by prejudice, but by a sober assessment of our needs. It must be carried out by governments who ought to resist the temptation sometimes to deport in order to seek approval from the mob. That policy must also address gender and health issues which are vital in this debate.The readmission agreement on which I have been asked to report is the first readmission agreement that the Community is entering into. I share the Commissioner’s appreciation of the willingness of the Hong Kong authorities to negotiate this with us. There is a danger that today’s debate will be confused with a debate on Hong Kong tomorrow which reflects concern about the implementation of Article 23 of the Basic Law. Some may argue that Hong Kong is not a safe country. I accept the assurance given on 10 December by Donald Tsang, Hong Kong’s Chief Secretary, when he gave his personal guarantee about the free flow of information and the freedom of speech remaining essential characteristics of Hong Kong society. Nor have I any doubt that the Hong Kong administration is competent to administer a readmission agreement. Moreover the agreement itself refers to international commitments to the protection of vulnerable persons.However, what concerns me about this agreement is that it is the first in what will be a series of such agreements. Authorisation has already been given for the negotiation of such agreements with many countries – some of them have even been initialled. The fact is that some of those agreements will be far harder than this one.Therefore, I would ask the Commission this afternoon to clarify a number of issues. The first concerns the scale of voluntary and forced repatriation promoted by the Member States, the categories of people involved and their countries of origin. Are the measures that Member States have adopted adequate and effective? Since this House is also very concerned to ensure that the policies of return and the readmission agreements we negotiate respect fundamental rights, I would also ask how the Commission proposes to ensure that the rights of individuals are respected in the event of repatriation, especially if this occurs on a large scale. Is the Commission sure that the readmission agreements it is proposing are compatible with our obligations under international refugee law? Will the Commission commit itself to establishing joint monitoring mechanisms with the countries with which we make readmission agreements? The House would like answers to all these questions.I would also like to know why the European Parliament is never mentioned in the Commission’s communication on a Community return policy. I would like clarification as to which coherent and transparent financial instrument will be used for the return policy in question and readmission agreements in particular. The role of the European Parliament as one arm of the budgetary authority is clearly important in this, and I would be interested to know whether we will, from a financial point of view, need a new legal base for this policy.The human rights clause in the readmission agreement used for Hong Kong is not strong enough to protect us against all eventualities in such agreements with other countries. We should recognise that, while concluding the agreement with Hong Kong was a relatively easy matter, as we were able to offer them visa-free access to the EU in return, cutting a deal with countries such as Russia and Morocco will be not a whit as easy.We will need to provide incentives for many third countries to cooperate with us, rather than threatening them with economic sanctions, as Mr Blair and Mr Aznar proposed in Seville. That is why I welcome the Commission’s recent communication on integrating migration issues into the Union’s external relations policy. If we join up the dots between this paper, our development policy, the negotiations on readmission and our economic need for immigration, we will be demonstrating the joined-up thinking we so urgently require in immigration and asylum policy.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office, Mr President of the Commission, I would like to start on a completely personal note by thanking Mrs Lindh for the job she and Mr Solana and Commissioner Patten have done in Macedonia. As a war baby, I am very conscious of the fact that peace is not celebrated with parades and that the arduous everyday work of maintaining peace does not gain huge headlines. War is better in a media society. However, I would like to thank Mrs Lindh for her excellent work so far.The main theme of Gothenburg will be sustainable development, and in this context the Kyoto Protocol will be brought up. President Bush is coming to Gothenburg. Should those in power in Europe, including myself, not “put their own house in order” first? Within the EU, we subsidise energy systems which produce the highest levels of carbon dioxide. Should we not first, or perhaps at the same time, do something about this? It is easier to negotiate once one has “put ones own house in order”.The other major environmental problem in Europe is traffic. There is also an EU project to create a good, environmentally friendly infrastructure in Europe.The third and perhaps one of our greatest environmental problems is the common agricultural policy. We are putting a little over EUR 40 billion into this area. Around 5 billion of that will go into preserving cultural heritage and biodiversity, the rest is highly counterproductive from the point of view of the environment, so let us “put our own house in order” as we move forward.
First of all I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Hedkvist Petersen, for her work and express my support for this report on the amending of Regulation 91/671/EC. This will make safety belt systems compulsory in cars up to 3.5 tons. Backward facing child seats will also be forbidden unless the airbag is disabled and passengers will have to wear belts in every vehicle fitted with them.My group is gratified that her amendments have been adopted. As a result child seats will apply to children not only below twelve but are also shorter than 150 cm. There is also demand for an “airbag information campaign” to warn against transporting children in seats when the air bag is activated. 'Smart' airbags might be a solution. And finally the manufacturer should give the consumer better information on which seats are best suited to children.The principal aim of the regulation is to reduce the inconsistencies caused by difference in application of the present ordinance in the Member States. As a result the regulation will become more transparent and more predictable. Problems in intracommunal traffic will be solved because legislation in the Member States will be brought into line.There was some discussion on the question to what extent this regulation is a community power or a power of the Member States. After studying this question of subsidiarity carefully, I believe that European legislation is required here to increase transparency in the field of compulsory seat belts and seatbelt use. It is a shared competence based on Article 251 of the Treaty. The fragmented legislation in the Member States cannot be tackled by the implementation of a uniform Regulation at community level.- Hautala Report (A5-173/2001)
Mr President, I wish to begin by paying tribute to Mr Provan's chairmanship of Parliament's Conciliation Committee. He did a marvellous job in very difficult circumstances. I should like to say, on behalf of the  Group, that we are fully and undividedly behind the agreement reached in conciliation and will vote accordingly.Most of the reasons have been well rehearsed before and we have heard some of them again this morning. This directive is crucial, indeed critical, to the financial services action plan. Therefore if we are genuinely interested in the competitiveness and good functioning of Europe's economy, we have to proceed with this directive. My Group believes that it is in the long-term interests of Europe's citizens.I want us to consider the interests of those we are really trying to protect with this directive, namely the minority shareholders, so that we can begin to secure investment and ownership in enterprises across Europe. It is now beginning to be the case, and will increasingly be so in future, that many of those investors are Europe's citizens investing for their future, savings and pensions.Recent events have shown that citizens are becoming increasingly frustrated with the inability of politicians to deal with the effects of globalisation and other aspects of corporate life. For example it seems quite possible that a group of motivated shareholders may be beginning to achieve an about-turn on the projected building of the Ilisu dam in Turkey. Shareholders can act against the Wall Street sharks. Shareholders are property owners; they have rights and responsibilities which can be exercised in many ways this House would wish to endorse. Shareholders will often also be employees.The conciliation result represents a substantial compromise. This directive has the potential to be the means to allow our citizens to be investors in the future of Europe's enterprise and to secure the health and vitality of our economy.
Mr President, I would like to put a question to the Commissioner. Is this the way in which the principle of transparency is to be applied, for two days ago it was impossible to discover which regulations you had adopted on access to documents. It is reminiscent of Orwell’s Animal Farm, where some are more equal than others. Despite searching, I have been unable to obtain access to your decision. This is not the way that transparency should function, with its taking more than a week to obtain information.Secondly, your reaction to the special report of the Ombudsman which was approved...(The President cut the speaker off)
Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity to wish you, the Bureau and all Members, a good transition into the new year.
Mr President, first of all I would very much like to congratulate Mrs Karamanou on her excellent report on the situation of women in south-east Europe. Indeed, equal opportunities between men and women in this region deserve our utmost attention in light of the problems caused by all types of exploitation of women.Human trafficking in south-east Europe is giving us the greatest cause for concern and worry. I am sorry to say that women are, in large numbers, the main victims of this terrible trafficking. The countries of this region too are called upon to take all measures necessary in order to put a stop to this modern slavery. For my part, it is true that combating the trafficking in women is an absolute priority, in line with our European values based on the principle of respect for fundamental rights.The horror of testimonies from Romanian, Moldavian and other women who have been sold for a handful of dollars is intolerable. The marketing of women must be very strongly condemned. Some Balkan countries that persistently hammer on the door of the European Union with the aim, of course, of becoming Member States should make it their absolute priority persistently to target these mafia-like organisations, break them up and severely punish those guilty of this horrendous trafficking.I would reiterate that we cannot tolerate the exploitation and abuse either of women or, especially, of girls, who are slaves of unscrupulous networks. Nor can we tolerate any longer the indifference of governmental authorities that all too often tend to close their eyes and ignore what is not only a problem but also a curse.
Mr President, this is one of the few times I have actually spoken on a topical or urgent matter in this House. I am motivated to do so because the shock waves and repercussions of what is happening in Zimbabwe have reached even my constituency in the in Yorkshire in the North of England in a number of ways in the last couple of weeks.It started with a visit from a young Zimbabwean with our local asylum seekers' organisation. He was an active member of the MDC. He and his fiancée had fled in fear of their lives, first to South Africa and, finding that not safe, they had come to the UK, but unfortunately his fiancée is likely to be returned. We do not know to what, but we can suspect.Then last week in Ripon in Yorkshire, I was asked to share a platform with a Member of the Zimbabwean Parliament, a shadow minister. Quietly spoken, he told of his aspirations for his country, a country of great potential but where, as we have heard, democracy and human rights are now denied and the rule of the law flouted. He told how he had been beaten, how he feared daily for his wife and his family and, just as we have also heard, he feared what would happen to him when he returns on 17 March.When people are fleeing for their lives across the world and when democratically elected politicians are in fear of their lives, Europe needs to make a response that this is not acceptable. I believe our resolution is clear and I hope it gets the support it deserves.(Applause)Children abducted by one of their parents
Mr President, I would like to begin by congratulating the President of the Council on a successful summit in Stockholm. I believe that many Swedes were delighted to see their country finally being able to act as host to the leaders of the EU.Stockholm was supposed to be about the creation of a competitive Europe. It was supposed to be about action, not EU rhetoric, but was that the case? No, unfortunately not enough, as the President of the Council himself has admitted. Reform of the EU is going too slowly. It was unfortunate that those in Stockholm were unable to agree on a timetable for deregulation of the energy markets. On the other hand, they did succeed in agreeing to create a common financial market, which has been eagerly awaited.We liberals now assume that the Council is prepared to act such that we achieve a solution which can also be accepted by Parliament. Mr President, this is about democratic support and openness. The Swedish Presidency has an overall vision of bringing the Union closer to its citizens. This is an excellent ambition. It therefore surprises me that at the Stockholm Summit the first step was not taken towards wide-ranging reform of agriculture and food policy, as this is the question possibly most under discussion over the breakfast tables in Europe, even – as I have understood – in the Prime Minister’s own home.Finally, I would like to point out we are now halfway through the Swedish Presidency. One issue is becoming ever clearer: – It is becoming more and more problematic for Sweden to remain outside the EMU. My question to the President of the Council is therefore this: according to the Council, what difficulties will be posed in terms of a more cohesive Union by Britain, Denmark and Sweden remaining outside EMU in the long term? I am not seeking an answer in terms of domestic policy but a theoretical opinion from an EU perspective.
Mr President, if the rapporteur's original draft report had gone through and had been accepted, it would have decimated industry across the EU. Yes, by all means protect workers, but do not throw workers out of work! It was essential that hearing protection should be taken into account, and I congratulate those industries and everybody else who convinced the rapporteur of the need to do so. If this had not been the case, with the exposure limit set at 87, hammering steel at 95-100 decibels, bottling at 98 decibels, and pig-feeding at 100 decibels would have ceased to exist, as would the construction and mining industries. Cement works and part of the engineering industry would have been decimated.I recognise that the rapporteur has moved and I welcome that. I welcome the fact that she has moved from daily measuring to weekly measuring in exceptional circumstances, but I would like her to move further to weekly measurements, to go back to the main body of the text as in the common position. I am very pleased that we have got the compromise amendment on music and leisure, whatever the rapporteur says: to have five years' exemption for the music and leisure industry, for the Commission to do a report, and then to come back to this House, but to consult with both sides of industry.I hope it goes through and I hope all MEPs will vote for it. Otherwise, we will have the ridiculous prospect of bar staff wearing ear-muffs when people go in to order a pint of beer. I am also glad that we have a chance to debate this because if it had been rejected on a second reading in committee, we would have had no chance to debate this today in the plenary session – no chance to put forward the amendment to exclude music and leisure for five years, and Parliament's view would not have been taken into account. So I say to those people who voted against the report in committee: if you had got your way, there is no way we would be standing here today.
Madam President, the establishment of the ICC marks a huge step forward in enforcing, at a global level, the principle of the rule of law which is fundamental to all liberal democracies. While ad hoc tribunals, such as those for Rwanda and the former Yugoslavia, are doing invaluable work, there is no substitute for a permanent court with the mandate and legitimacy to prosecute criminals wherever they may hide. We need only look at Croatia's refusal to hand over General Bobetko to The Hague on the grounds that Croatia was not the aggressor, to see the problems which can arise.In negotiations on the Rome Statute, Europe bent over backwards to achieve an outcome which would accommodate American concerns. It is therefore a matter of deep regret to Liberal Democrats in this House that a number of countries have refused to sign the Rome Statute for the ICC. These countries include Iran, Iraq, North Korea and the United States. If we follow the old adage 'you will be judged by the company you keep', what message does the USA's presence in this group of refusniks send to the world? Especially when taken in conjunction with America's disavowal of the Kyoto protocol, the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, and the Biological Weapons Convention. It is bad enough that the USA is refusing to ratify the Rome Statute, but to try to strangle it at birth by reaching bilateral agreements with countries such as Israel and Romania in order to prevent its nationals being surrendered to the ICC is terrible.UN Security Council Resolution 1422 also sets a dangerous precedent and should not be renewed next July. The European Union should do its utmost to avoid undermining the ICC before it has even begun its work. I therefore urge the President-in-Office of the Council to recognise the storm-clouds gathering over this issue and to pull the EU Member States together under one umbrella. In an age of instability it is understandable that the EU wishes to avoid a breakdown in transatlantic relations, but any agreement with the USA must be supported by all EU countries and be consistent with the Rome Statute. Another failure on our part to show unity would further undermine the EU's credibility in foreign affairs.We must get our own house in order. The countries wishing to join us, including the Czech Republic, Lithuania and Malta, must understand that the values the ICC represents are fundamental to the European Union, and that speedy ratification of the Rome Statute would prevent any delay in their accession. We urge Romania not to ratify its bilateral agreement with the USA, and it is also important for the Union to act together within the ICC in terms of financial support and the appointment of judges, the prosecutor and staff. By acting together, Europe can contribute greatly to making the ICC work, and thereby reassure the USA that the Court is serious and poses no threat to their law-abiding nationals. We must work to bring the Americans on board at a later date. Neither government must forget that we are accountable to the court of world public opinion.In conclusion, Madam President, the ICC is a symbol of the world for which we strive – a world in which human rights and international law will be upheld everywhere, and most of all, a world in which no shelter will be given to those guilty of the vilest crimes. Let us work together to enable the court to get off to a flying start when it becomes operational in January.Madam President, I too apologise to the President-in-Office and the Commissioner, but I must leave the debates, since I must chair a meeting of my party.(Applause)
Mr President, Commissioner, I wish to concentrate on the ARGO programme and begin by thanking Mr Oostlander for a good report. At the committee reading, a number of proposals went through which further strengthened the programme’s common dimension.Mr President, it cannot be emphasised enough how important it is for the EU to acquire a common approach when it comes to asylum issues. It is important, then, for the administrative routines to operate similarly everywhere. Those who try to come to Europe must be treated respectfully, humanely and equally. They must not be shunted like mere objects between the various Member States, as unfortunately often happens at present.Events in recent years indicate very clearly the need for common programmes and common funding within the sphere of asylum. Just as other MEPs have stated, there is a need for education, the exchange of experiences and the development of common practice. The candidate countries, which will form the EU’s new external borders, are also important in this context, of course.Unfortunately – and this, I think, is something that deserves to be pointed out – the EU’s refugee and asylum policy has in recent years been characterised mostly by directly opposite tendencies. The Member States have often acted short-sightedly and without proper consideration, with catastrophic human suffering as a consequence. Sometimes, the thought arises as to whether certain Member States have competed in setting aside humanitarianism and the rule of law.As Mr Oostlander pointed out, the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party has tabled an amendment concerning a further definition of what precisely constitutes a refugee under the Geneva Convention. The latter certainly constitutes the mainstay of asylum and refugee policy, but it makes sense to adapt one’s practice to changes in the real state of affairs. As Mr Evans pointed out, experience in recent years has shown that this is so. Refugees must be able to seek protection both from the State and from persecution in their own countries, and a further definition is therefore needed. We therefore propose such a definition, and we hope that this House can also accept our proposal.
Mr President, what happened on 11 September does not reduce the need for development aid. On the contrary. There is reason for calling upon all the EU countries to live up to their pledges in Gothenburg to increase their aid to the promised 0.7%. The EU is most certainly the world’s largest donor region, but that does not say as much about our own efforts as about the deficiencies of others. Even if we are not at present supposed to be criticising the United States but instead continuing to support them, it has to be said that the United States’ role in this context has not been particularly distinguished, to put it mildly. There is both their deficient contribution to the UN and the insufficient development aid they have provided. The issue of their contribution to the UN has now been sorted out, so we can hope that the issue of development aid will also be sorted out. Prevention is, of course, better than cure, and development aid is an effort at prevention. It is sad that it is so easy to get expenditure on military systems authorised and that it is so difficult to get expenditure on the preventative work of development aid authorised. We must be clear that, in our contemporary world with its TV channels, the very poorest people also know that there are very large inequalities in the world. In reality, it is amazing that they do not react more strongly than they in fact do. There is no doubt that the refugee ship we heard about this summer is only the first small portent of what is to come.Following this introduction, I wish to turn to the rapporteur’s report and thank him for all the work he has put into this matter. Crisis conditions, to put it mildly, prevail in a long list of developing countries. A huge effort is therefore necessary when it comes to HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria. Anyone who has been in any doubt as to whether this can simply be left to private companies can no longer, after the debate that has been conducted in recent years, be in any doubt that an effort is required, partly from the donor countries. We cannot leave this to the free market. It has actually been rather humiliating to discuss this matter, but that is why it is all the more gratifying that the EU has now done something in this area and, for example, totally untied the funds, which means that developing countries can buy wherever it is best and cheapest to do so. We must not only concentrate on medicine. We must, of course, also concentrate on restructuring. It is incredibly important that we should ensure that people are helped to help themselves and that we should see to it that systems are devised for which developing countries themselves can take responsibility and which they can, above all, manage, including when we are not there to support them. Both medicines and infrastructure are required in this matter, and I would urge us to continue to make a major effort to help developing countries to help themselves.
Madam President, President Prodi, at first sight the White Paper might seem tied down to its essentially technical content. If, instead, we consider the reasons why it was drawn up – reasons that should have been given greater coverage in the text itself – we realise that it has a very solid and highly relevant political core. In the G8 debate here in this House, I pointed out that, while globalisation is proceeding apace in all fields, it is hard for it to involve politics, which thus remains inadequate and slow compared with what is happening in other sectors. This is undoubtedly one of the basic reasons for citizens’ widespread mistrust of institutions at all levels, from local to European to worldwide. Besides, what do the people of Seattle, Gothenburg or Genoa, leaving aside the more extreme positions, want of politics, if not to control globalisation? What answer are we in a position to give, today, apart from our own inadequacy?The European Union project is, of course, still the only concrete example that can meet these demands, but it has not yet expressed its democratic potential to the full. The White Paper is thus a valuable instrument, provided Parliament shows the same willingness to specify those substantial organisational reforms that will enable it to reconstruct and revive European democratic citizenship.
First, two questions addressed to the Commission. Paragraph 9 of the draft report talks about the need to preserve the peace clause and special safeguard clause for a provisional period. I am very curious to know what your views are on the preservation of those clauses as the talks proceed.Secondly, paragraph 22, which Mr Seguro just mentioned. I understand that GATS do not necessarily affect publicly controlled utilities. I was wondering if you could perhaps expand on what the implications of GATS might be on utilities which have already been privatised.Now, two observations. Firstly, it seems to me that there is a unique opportunity for increasing common ground between the EU and the US as far as agriculture is concerned. This is principally because of the profligacy of the American Government in supporting American farmers to an ever greater degree over the last few years, in a sense removing the moral authority that the US has had in the past in accusing the common agricultural policy of being wasteful and distorting. I wonder if you really feel there is an opportunity for you and the US to find new common ground in the agriculture talks. Finally, you will not be surprised to hear that I wish to stress the importance of the latter part of paragraph 40.The Nice Summit might have been a halting step forward in terms of efficiency, but it is a serious step backward in terms of legitimacy and transparency as far as the conduct of the EU's trade policy is concerned. This is notably exemplified by the way in which the 133 Committee continues to take important and highly political decisions in the trade field without any published records or public account. In view of the lacuna which has opened up after the somewhat pot-pourri result of Nice, I urge both the Commission and the Council to look very favourably at the idea of an Interinstitutional Agreement in this field. If not, the moral authority of the whole European Union on transparency and legitimacy is seriously weakened in the WTO.
Mr President, Commissioner, we must be glad about the establishment of this agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Chile and I also believe it is fair to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Salafranca, on his efforts and the results achieved.It is a very broad agreement which will undoubtedly increase commercial transactions between the European Union and Chile and this is positive at a time when many countries in Latin America are in a particularly difficult situation.It should be stressed that the total of tariffs on imports from Chile, relating to industrial products, will be restricted in 2006 and that in the agricultural field this will take place in 2012.The agreement also offers great possibilities in the fields of services and financial services, as well as on all aspects relating to investments. It is also positive that it includes a protocol on fishing enterprises.I have read the report of the International Human Rights Federation on the indigenous populations in Chile. These represent 4.4 % of the total population, or 13%, depending on the source of statistics.Of these populations, the Mapuche people, in percentage terms, are the most significant. The problems of the indigenous population relate to forest exploitation and the construction of large hydro-electric projects.We must remember that these problems were exacerbated enormously during the dictatorship of Pinochet. We are glad that the report contains explicit references to the protection of human rights and specifically mentions the rights of indigenous minorities.We hope that this Agreement will create greater transparency and mutual understanding, and that it will also recognise the rights of the indigenous peoples.Finally, while on the subject of Chile, as a citizen of Catalonia, I must acknowledge Chile’s reception in former times of Catalan exiles fleeing the Franco dictatorship.
The European Union must take definite action to cut its emissions of the most polluting gases.It must do so to protect the health of its citizens, to meet the Kyoto targets, to set an example to the world and to avoid looming catastrophe: the latest report from the International Energy Agency’s climatologists predicts that energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions will double by 2030.That is why I voted for the creation of this ‘permit to pollute less’ that will apply to the main sectors of industry from 1 January 2005. Undertakings that exceed their quotas will be fined: EUR 40 per tonne excess, then EUR 100 per tonne after 2008.This system of trading quotas is therefore a real breath of fresh air that will enable these emissions to be cut by more than 20% from 2010, not to mention EUR 2 000 million in energy savings.There is one sour note all the same: I think it is unreasonable to ask Belgium to carry one eighth of Europe’s total ‘Kyoto’ costs when it has only around 2.5% of the population and accounts for just under 3% of European GNP. Saving the planet is the responsibility of us all, all the rich countries, all industries, including transport, and also individuals.
deputising for the rapporteur. – Madam President, as Chairman of the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, I rise to present Mrs Karamanou’s report. Mrs Karamanou is sadly unable to be with us tonight, but I feel it appropriate that her report should be debated along with Mr Marinho’s excellent report, which we have just discussed.The Republic of Portugal presented a draft Protocol amending Article 2 of the Convention on the establishment of a European Police Office, Europol. This Portuguese initiative aims to extend Europol’s competences in order to establish a general framework of competence for Europol in relation to money laundering. The fight against money laundering is, of course, one of the Union’s most important priorities, as rightly identified at the Tampere Summit last year. Considering that money laundering is at the heart of organised crime, especially drug trafficking, which represents such a threat to public health and public security, one cannot but endorse this proposed measure. Declarations must be followed by concrete steps to trace, freeze, seize and confiscate the proceeds of crime. This proposed Protocol should be seen as a necessary measure in a European strategy for police cooperation in the field of money laundering. But considering the urgency, our rapporteur seeks in her Amendment No 6 to have this Protocol adopted as quickly as possible that is, according to Article 34(2)(d) of the Treaty on European Union, when a majority of Member States have notified their approvals.The committee which I have the honour to chair adopted Mrs Karamanou’s report nearly unanimously. Much as we approved of the Portuguese initiative, however, we insist on a broader revision of the Europol Convention and indeed on mechanisms to ensure both democratic accountability and judicial control of Europol. Let me touch briefly on those two matters. On the question of democratic accountability, I note that at the moment Article 39 of the Europol Convention requires that the European Parliament simply be consulted on an annual report. This is quite unacceptable and on several recent occasions, Parliament has requested, in particular in the Nassauer and Cederschiöld reports, modifications to the Europol Convention to ensure true democratic accountability of this agency. In order for Parliament to exercise such democratic control, Europol must, as with the other European institutions such as the ECB and the Ombudsman, report on its activities in an annual exchange of views. The Director of Europol should be required to appear before Parliament’s competent committees when circumstances require. Moreover, Parliament should be represented on the management board of Europol and should have a say in the choice of the director of the agency. These requests are covered in Amendments Nos 2 and 4 of Mrs Karamanou’s report.On questions of judicial accountability, it seems to us equally unacceptable that possible disputes or conflicts between Member States or between Europol and Member States cannot be brought before the Court of Justice, despite the provisions of Article 35 of the Treaty which refer precisely to matters relating to police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. This contradiction conflicts with democratic values, particularly in regard to human rights, and especially in the field of data protection. This lack of judicial accountability of Europol is particularly dangerous given that Europol seems to be assuming more and more responsibilities and this concern is covered in Mrs Karamanou’s Amendment No 5.In conclusion, Parliament has considered attentively and positively this Portuguese initiative but we are unsatisfied with the limited scope of the proposed revision of the Europol Convention. Faced with the challenge of internationally organised crime, the European Parliament must be able to represent the citizens of the Union effectively and this is why we must be fully informed of and involved in Europol’s activities, its programmes, effectiveness, methods and means. I am fully aware that in this matter Parliament is only consulted. Nevertheless, we urge the French Presidency, which has shown such a determined commitment to fight against money laundering, to take account of our demands. The creation of a European area of freedom, security and justice cannot remain in the hands of a specialised agency under the sole control of national governments. This is a major area of European integration and the European Parliament is ready to offer its support to policies in this area provided it is duly involved.
Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to start by congratulating the rapporteur. Along with other speakers, I have the impression that this year’s budget is particularly complex. Some sections of the budget are difficult to implement. I therefore believe that, in principle, we ought to support the Commission proposals for revising their staffing policy. I, however, will vote in favour of the so-called performance reserve, for I believe that it is necessary that, at this stage, we obtain some more information, and in my view, that information should detail the conditions of early retirement and the consequences for staffing levels if some time in 2004, or maybe earlier in 2003, we will be recruiting officials from Central and Eastern European countries. Finally, I also endorse the observation made in the Haug resolution that we need to pay bills on time as soon as possible, because the Commission will not come out smelling of roses if this situation continues for much longer.I would also like to say a few things about agriculture. In my opinion, the Commission has put up a poor show and the Council has compounded the situation by beating the Commission down on its agricultural expenditure schedule right at the start of this year in the Council meeting of July of this year. We agreed on an ad-hoc procedure a few years ago which stipulated that we would determine agricultural expenditure more or less at the end of October in the lettre rectificative and yes, that is the long and short of it. It escapes me how the Commission can give this estimate as early as February and the Council in July. It amounts to no more than a stab in the dark and I believe that, if we agree on a set amount and if there is an added amount in Berlin, we should also try to fulfil that agreement.The main point of discussion is category 4. How can we finance emergency aid for the Balkans? I am in favour of it. I believe we ought to do something in Serbia and the western Balkans as a matter of urgency. The key question is, of course, how to finance this? I am not a fan of artificially increasing certain budget lines so that we subsequently have to say that we need to exceed the financial perspective. I would prefer us to first of all try to find the funds within the financial perspective. If necessary, we could always look further afield, but at this stage, I have no reason to assume this.I would like to say a few words about the budget implementation. I wanted to make two points, in particular. I have just received a letter today from the Commissioner on the implementation of the SOS helpline, which, sadly, is desperately needed in Europe. The Commission does not label this as information policy, but social policy. Seen in this light, it does not belong in a line as voted by Parliament. I would question that, for I think that it is just as much information policy as it is social policy, and I therefore hope to return to this topic within the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development shortly.The second point I wanted to make concerns quality policy for agricultural products, for which Parliament earmarked 50 million of the budget last year. This has never been more topical. The Commission made very little effort to implement this policy, which is deplorable.
Mr President, as we approach the first European Council of the Italian presidency and assess the progress thus far, is the glass of prosecco that the presidency will offer next week half full or half empty?On the evidence of the inaugural meeting of the Intergovernmental Conference in Rome I fear it is half empty. When the Member States convene again to discuss Europe's draft constitution, they should recall the shambolic Nice Summit and reflect on the costs of failure. Poland and Spain should be reminded that their intransigence over the reform of voting weights in Council is perilous politics as well as poor mathematics.If the Nice arrangements were satisfactory, the Council would not have established a Convention in the first place. The system of majority voting agreed at Nice is unwieldy and unfair. To its credit, the Convention threw out the unsteady compromises of Nice and proposed a voting system which is fairer and more transparent. Last time I checked, the representatives of the Spanish and Polish Governments had signed up to the Convention's outcome: now they must respect its work.On other issues too, the hard bargaining has been done. The consensus crafted by the Convention will not be improved on in Rome. Unpick the substance of the draft Treaty and the IGC will drag on into 2004 and descend into diplomatic farce. Then Rome really will be the eternal city.When it comes to economic reform and the Stability Pact, the bubbles in the prosecco have long evaporated. France has yet to convince us that it takes its responsibilities seriously. La France désire-t-elle vraiment jouer le rôle du 'je-m'en-foutiste'? Il faut voir. While we understand the reluctance of some governments to confront France, a Stability Pact without teeth is a paper dragon breathing tinsel flames. The eight governments which have worked hard to play by the rules - often at considerable political cost - have every right to be dismayed that their larger neighbours take fiscal laxity so lightly.The Italian presidency's drive to enhance Europe's competitiveness at the European Council is welcome. But we need to move beyond bold declarations. To achieve better and simpler legislation we need proper consultation and business impact assessments. A level playing field for company take-overs is still frustratingly far away and we have much work to do to agree a viable framework for an integrated market in investment services before the European elections.My group welcomes this week's decision by finance ministers to refocus the growth initiative away from road and rail projects and towards investment in innovation which will help to close Europe's research deficit.In the field of Justice and Home Affairs, there is more sparkle in the Council's agenda. The balance which theseeks to ensure between tackling illegal migration and providing for a system of managed legal migration seems to be essentially there. We will support the Commission in its efforts to create a Border Management Agency. Europe's new eastern border will be one of the longest in the world: it is crucial that we pool our expertise in policing it properly.Sadly, the external agenda of the Union leaves us no cause for celebration. The failure of Cancún must redouble our determination to secure reform of the WTO and trading arrangements which help the world's poorest countries. Europe must insist on a central role for the United Nations in return for the internationalisation of the situation in Iraq. And the tragic events of the past week in the Middle East confirm the need for Europe and America to remain engaged. My group condemns unreservedly the suicide bombings in Haifa, but calls on Israel to abide by international law and act proportionately in its response.A new Constitution, a credible Stability Pact, a revitalised economy, a secure and just Europe in a more stable world: these would be the flavours of a truly vintage year: le auguro buona fortuna per la vendemmia.I too must apologise to Council and Commission for having to leave before the end of this debate. The rescheduling of this debate has caused me this embarrassment.(Applause)
Mr President, the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party hopes that it might be possible for Belarus one day to be accepted into the European Community. We hope that the country can introduce democracy, human rights and principles characteristic of a state governed by law. We hope that a market economy will be introduced so that the badly afflicted Belorusian people might experience economic prosperity and dare to believe in the future. Unfortunately, we are an infinitely long way away from realising that vision. The trend is completely in the wrong direction, and it is no exaggeration to say that Lukashenko is an odious Communist dictator. His latest professions of friendship for his fellow dictator, Saddam Hussein are no doubt in keeping with what we know about the Belorusian leader.The list of atrocities in Belarus is endless: imprisoned and disappeared journalists, persecution, maltreatment, torture of opponents, farcical elections, frequent application of the death penalty and no freedom of expression. Moreover, Belarus is both a country of origin and country of transit when it comes to extensive trafficking in women and children, and a vast number of illegal weapons circulate there.Obviously, it is not possible to have any official and formal contacts with the Belorusian regime. Even though I value the idea of a structured dialogue, I wonder how it will be possible for this to take place with the regime in question. However, it is important, just as Commissioner Patten said, to strengthen the limited and courageous opposition that exists: opposition parties, human rights organisations, voluntary organisations and journalists who desperately need our help and who are fighting against extreme odds. This support would be best provided in cooperation with the OSCE, the Council of Europe and the UN. The troika, of which the European Parliament is a part, would also fulfil a very important function.There is cause for taking a gloomy view of developments in Belarus, but let us not for that reason betray the Belorusian people, who have had to put up with a great deal, and let us never stop putting pressure on the regime and the authorities. The forthcoming local elections are something to focus on.My group supports Mr Marset Campos’s very well prepared report and wants to congratulate him on this work.
Mr President, I would join the chorus of those who say that the forthcoming enlargement is now the main task of the EU. If this does not succeed, then nor shall we. We could make ourselves comfortable in our little club, but its whole raison d’être would then be lost, and we should not be able to secure the large perspectives of peace, freedom and stability. Nor shall we succeed, however, if we do not appreciate that enlargement should, first and foremost, be for the benefit not only of a few people but of all people in the candidate countries, or in any case the majority of them. And with all due respect for what is being said and written in Parliament, a broad democratic base is something we do not have. I therefore also listened very carefully to Commissioner Verheugen’s words about ‘selling’ the EU to the candidate countries, for the majority of Central and Eastern European countries – if not all of them – have, of course, said that they want to hold referenda, or in any case have not said that they do not, and I personally think that this is a good idea. One should be clear, however, that there is undeniably a danger of people voting ‘no’.So what were the problems Mr Verheugen thought were of concern to citizens? He mentioned migration, competition, social dumping, prices etc.. All obviously real concerns, but I think there is one thing which overshadows all others, that of how they can survive as countries, nations and States. Now, I am, admittedly, talking partly against the background of the fact that I come from a small country which has just voted ‘no’ in a referendum. This ‘no’ will now be analysed carefully in the days to come. There is no doubt at all that right-wing forces have been involved. We have also seen who has paid for the advertisements. Egoism and, especially, populism have also played their part. Nor, certainly, has the falling rate of the euro helped things in the right direction. Even though there are, of course, many of us who are aware of the historical basis for the euro and of what the whole thing is about, it has not been enough to convince people. But having said all that, it is questions about how we can survive as a State that have occupied people’s minds. How is one to get around the fact that it is really politicians in the big countries such as Germany and France who make the decisions? I think it is incredibly important that we bear this factor in mind when negotiating with the candidate countries. I can fully guarantee you that, in those countries, the spectre of union is very easy to conjure up. They have in fact experienced it at first hand for a very long time.Another lesson from Denmark, which is directly relevant to the Committee on whose behalf I am speaking, is that everything suggests that there are far more women than men who have voted ‘no’. If we are not to risk a repeat performance in the candidate countries, it is crucial that we be clear about the fact that enlargement should not be of benefit only to men but also be of benefit to women. I believe that, up until now, all objective investigations have shown that the transition to a market economy has had a greater impact upon women than upon men. A great deal of pressure has been placed upon traditional social values in the former planned economies of Central and Eastern Europe. The rapid restructuring of the old State-run industries which is at present taking place has of course resulted in serious unemployment for both men and women, at the same time as the private sector has still not managed to fill the vacuum. And, as I say, the figures suggest that there are a great many women who have become unemployed. Even in countries such as Lithuania, where there is an economic upturn, it is not women, but men, who get to fill the jobs in the private sector.For one reason or another, it is evidently thought that men are the ones who really possess the entrepreneur gene. We therefore need to realise that women are much more vulnerable in this process of readjustment and therefore much more vulnerable in relation to the Union project as a whole than we have indicated up until now. I would strongly urge the Commission to be alert to this in all its negotiations with the candidate countries. If we do not secure jobs for women, if we do not ensure that the non-governmental organisations are there to talk about the Union project, then we can forget all about obtaining a democratic endorsement. We shall not succeed. It is therefore also important, of course, that, in connection with enlargement, we ensure that the legislation on equality is implemented sensibly so that the enlargement we are all hoping for – and I would here point out that one of the countries in which there is most support for enlargement is in fact Denmark – can also in actual fact take place. This cannot, however, happen by itself, and I would very much urge that attention be given to the position of women.
Mr President, tomorrow is 4 July, Independence Day. We join our American friends in a celebration of America's achievements. In two world wars the Americans came to liberate us from darkness and violence, and when the Balkans erupted the Americans stepped in when Europe failed. The Americans are there when you need them, ready to fight and die for a world of freedom and democracy.However, freedom and democracy do not stop after the obtaining of peace. In order to maintain peace and prevent wars perpetrators of crimes must always be brought to justice. That is why we in Europe find it utterly incomprehensible that Americans are now cheering on their legislators as they are killing off an essential tool that was missing in our quest to make the world a safer and more just place – the International Criminal Court.The Court has a mandate to prosecute only the most horrible crimes – genocide, mass murder and mass rape. In the past we have had to set up ad hoc tribunals for the Milosevics of this world. Now 74 countries have ratified a court which Kofi Annan rightly calls 'a great victory for justice, and for world order – a turn away from the rule of brute force, and towards the Rule of Law.'America and Europe have built-in safeguards to ensure the Court will not become a political tool. Any government can prevent the Court from taking action against its citizens by prosecuting them at home. Despite all this, the US has withdrawn its signature. If that were not a large enough blow to international justice, Congress then accepted the American Servicemembers' Protection Act, which not only threatens to withhold military and financial support to any country that cooperates with the Court, but also allows the US to invade a long-time friend and ally – my country to be precise. The Dutch people cannot understand how our American friends can now threaten us with violence, and for what? Is it really more important to allow American soldiers to commit war crimes than to build a safer world? Is it necessary to jeopardise international peacekeeping missions just to make the point that superpowers do not have to play by the rules?Perhaps this is an opportunity for Europe. Europe has a chance to show the world that it is indeed a union of values; that we believe in a world in which we are all equal before the law, a world in which perpetrators of crimes will be brought to justice, no matter who they are and where they are hiding: a world ruled by law, not by the sword of the mightiest.I cannot believe that Americans do not also want this type of world and I hope deeply that they will reconsider their position. However, until they do, Europe must take the lead. We must show the world that we will stick to our principles and fight for justice. If a majority of the House sends that signal to the world tomorrow by supporting our compromise resolution then we are also celebrating Independence Day, the day that Europe stood up for its values.
Mr President, I should like to thank Mr Bayona de Perogordo for a constructive and comprehensive report. It contains a series of criticisms, and it is only right that these areas should have been pointed out. In that connection, I should like to draw attention to the entire reform of the accounting system. A lot has happened in the last twelve to eighteen months. I think it good that, last year, we had a regulation introduced to the effect that, in future, the Commission should report on a quarterly basis to the Committee on Budgetary Control. What is quite excellent is that we have now had the opportunity to evaluate the progress made, but there are still major issues and problems to be solved by the Commission concerning the accounting system. We shall not have the final test of whether these have been solved successfully until we move over to the new system on 1 January. I hope that, here in Parliament today, Commissioner Schreyer will promise to go on giving impetus to the reform process, even if it takes place in the middle of the changeover to a new Commission.Otherwise, I would draw attention to Mr van Hulten’s report. I think he has prepared a constructive report. It now gives us the opportunity to obtain some clearer rules governing Parliament’s activity, administration and Members. I think it will be good if we can put together a majority establishing that our travel expenses should be calculated as per account rendered. I also think it might be good to have it established that Parliament itself must have the ability to determine the place and times at which it assembles, and I would in any case call for this part of the report to be supported.Finally, I should like to conclude with a couple of words about political accountability. A number of matters have now been raised, or proposals made, with a view to debating political accountability. I think it is at the consultations that are to take place when the new Parliament assembles that we should put our energies into getting some principles governing Commissioners’ political accountability adopted. We should not put our energies into debating a matter that, in a way, has now been concluded.
Madam President, I just wanted to make the German Members aware of the fact that the old version contains a translation error. I do not know whether it has been corrected or not. It concerns paragraph 5. The budgetary year concerned is 1999, but the old German version states 1997. I wanted to make it clear, and I have not seen the most recent German version, that the text should read as follows: “declares to be unable to close the accounts for implementing the budget for the budgetary year 1999 before the Commission has rectified the bookkeeping errors which have been detected by the Court of Auditors”.(Parliament adopted the two decisions and the resolution in successive votes)***Report (A5-0001/2000) by Mr van Hulten, on behalf of the Committee on Budgetary Control, on action to be taken on the second report of the Committee of Independent Experts on reform of the Commission- Relating to paragraph 48
Mr President, Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein poses a real threat. He has used weapons of mass destruction in the past to oppress his own people and in seeking to draw Israel into a wider Middle East war. The international community has a responsibility to stop Iraq developing weapons of mass destruction. Yet the consequences of war are potentially so serious that, for my group, it should be only a last resort.Avoiding war does not mean letting Saddam Hussein off the hook. Those who urge America not to launch a pre-emptive strike against Iraq are not appeasers, as Donald Rumsfeld implies when he compares George W. Bush to Winston Churchill. To my mind that comparison is more absurd than Dan Quayle comparing himself to John F. Kennedy. If I may paraphrase Senator Lloyd Benson I would say 'Donald, George W. Bush ain't no Winston Churchill'! The real lesson of history is this: Churchill correctly identified the Nazi threat at an early stage but when he acted it was not unilaterally and pre-emptively. He drew a line in the sand. He acted with moral authority and international backing when that line was crossed. Churchill did not bomb Berlin and try to overthrow the Nazi regime based on his suspicions of Hitler; he acted in concert with his allies when it was clear that he had right on his side. For the  Group the issue today is about getting United Nations weapons inspectors back into Iraq, not about George W. Bush settling an old family score with Saddam Hussein.The Iraqi Government must comply with UN resolutions and must let weapons inspectors back in unconditionally. Once in, those inspectors must be allowed to go wherever they want, whenever they want. Only if Iraq refuses to readmit inspectors, if it unreasonably obstructs their work or if those inspectors find evidence of Iraq developing weapons of mass destruction would the international community be justified in taking further action. European governments must make clear their support for UN-backed military action in those circumstances. If it comes to war it must be the international community that acts together, not the United States unilaterally. A UN resolution needs to be approved setting a deadline for Iraqi compliance. A broad international coalition must be built and must include Arab countries if we are to convince world opinion that we are not seeking a clash of civilisations. Frankly, as the Commissioner said, our task would be a lot easier if the US showed the same focus on resolving the crisis in the Middle East, as it does on removing Saddam Hussein.We also need to think seriously about how to rebuild stability in the region after any strike. The international coalition, including America, must commit resources to nation-building. Unless we rebuild its economy and society and help to develop viable political institutions, an Iraq devastated by war would risk imploding and posing an even greater danger to the stability of the region.We cannot postpone the debate much longer by claiming that no decisions are imminent. I would say this to the President-in-Office of the Council: Mr Haarder, it is no good saying the European Union's position is clear while referring to a statement of 20 May. The Union's position is as clear as mud. If it were clear, Ambassador Burghardt in Washington would not lament how Member States are jealously guarding their own access to the American Administration rather than acting as a common front.Just as at the UN Summit in Johannesburg, the European Union will have influence only if it acts as a United States of Europe. That is your job. Consensus needs to be built about how to tackle the threat, evidence of weapons of mass destruction needs to be published and – most importantly of all – any strike needs to be backed by international law and the moral authority of the international community. The world cannot afford the instability which would come from a unilateral and pre-emptive military adventure in Iraq.(Applause)
Mr President, I welcome the resolve that was shown here today by the French Presidency and the Commission in placing emphasis on enlargement as the key priority for the external action of the Union. I hope that when we come to deal with the matter in the House tomorrow the Verheugen incident will have simply served as a timely reminder that we must get our signals clear and avoid giving mixed messages with regard to this strategic priority.With regard to the matter in hand, I should like to pick up on a point made by the Commissioner earlier today when he talked about the attempt to make foreign policy more effective and to warmly welcome and subscribe to his view on the indivisibility of the Union's foreign policy. If we take the Barcelona process, the Middle East peace process, our relations with the Western Balkans, our relations with Russia, clearly there is a vast area of policy to be covered and a wide variety of instruments. It is clear that a successful foreign policy cannot stand on one pillar alone. Even if the conduct of foreign policy – and in particular, the security and defence dimension of foreign policy – is essentially for government, it follows that because of the nature of the policy terrain and the instruments available it cannot be government's exclusive concern. The Commission is right to demand its right of association under the Treaty and, through that, for this Parliament to demand its right of accountability and scrutiny.A second general point I should like to refer to is in respect of the efficiency of policy. Here too the new Commission – and in particular, Commissioner Patten – deserve to be congratulated, first of all for revealing to us the extent of the horror that much of the policy had become. Let me recall one of the results of these inquiries: in the past five years the average delay in the disbursement of committed funds has increased from three years to four-and-a-half years. For certain programmes the backlog of outstanding commitments is equivalent to more than eight-and-a-half years of payments. That clearly is a farce in anyone's analysis. It has to be said in fairness that the former Commission led by Jacques Santer was as much a victim as an author of this process. This is an accumulation of an ineffective and inefficient system over years. We welcome the commitment to an urgent review of that process.On behalf of the Liberal Democrat Group I should like to lay particular emphasis on our distress at the code of secrecy rather than the code of transparency normally promoted by the Council. Blanket secrecy is not the way to legitimise an evolving Community policy. My group deplores the fact that this code of secrecy was slipped in during the Parliamentary summer recess, with no Parliamentary consultation and by written procedure. It amounts to a form of intergovernmental conspiracy against citizens' right to know. I want to hear from the Council today what role it feels it is prepared to accord to this House in terms of the scrutiny and accountability of issues which may be intergovernmental but which cannot stand on one pillar alone?
Mr President, I think it is a good principle to try to avoid unnecessary work and unnecessary confusion. I believe that those present in the House are representative. I therefore propose that we immediately vote on referral back to committee.
Mr President, the unilateral attack by the United States demonstrates once again that the United Nations has not been a valid instrument. The European Union has also demonstrated that the common foreign policy has not been common. Perhaps we should remember 30 August 1954 when a European Union of defence became impossible.I regret the letter of the eight members. I also regret that the Spanish Government has expended more energy justifying the use of arms than seeking diplomatic solutions to the conflict. I am glad that the Catalonian Parliament has adopted a resolution in which it asked the Spanish Government to support the role of the Security Council so that the work of the inspectors may continue, so that the use of force outside the context of the United Nations may be rejected, and I am glad that the demonstrations in the streets, in the city of Barcelona and in other main cities in Catalonia, have demonstrated that our country is against war and in agreement with its Parliament.
Mr President, can I put this debate in context? After the Indonesian invasion in 1976 the UN did not recognise the Indonesian sovereignty over East Timor. Let us get that straight for a start. Only the Australians recognised it and even they, after a while, decided that they were wrong, so legally we did not have to ask permission to send in an international peacekeeping force. However, we did. And now, at long last, they have agreed. But when will it go in? Hopefully, by this weekend. Who will head it? Hopefully it will not be the Indonesians. I heard on the television this morning that one faction within the Indonesian army was actually saying that it wanted to lead the multinational peacekeeping force! Fortunately the foreign minister had other ideas, but obviously there is warfare between them all at the moment. But whoever leads it, it must go in now, immediately, before we see any more atrocities.They are happening on a daily basis. Churches and schools are burnt. People are hacked to death. Yesterday I heard of a nun who was told she was being rescued and she should not look at the church. She tried to see it and saw blood seeping in front of the church door, the blood of women, children and priests. What had they done? Nothing. And that was not an isolated incident. UN workers were attacked when they tried to move food and the army just stood by. If food and shelter cannot get through, there is going to be a humanitarian catastrophe, not just in East Timor, but in West Timor as well.The latest story is that refugees were put on to ships and told they were being rescued. The ships then came back a short time later with nobody on board. That is genocide in anybody’s terms.(Applause)And that is why we have to have a war crimes tribunal: to bring these people to justice.What else can be done? A military embargo yes, but it should have been done sooner. The Hawk jets from Britain should have been cancelled sooner. I am glad they have been cancelled now but it is a bit too late. The peace-keeping force must go in now. Humanitarian aid and human rights monitors for West Timor and East Timor must go in now but more importantly the Indonesian Government must be held to account.
I also would like to express my pleasure at seeing the President-in-Office of the Council here. As a friend and colleague it is very nice to see him back and, if ever things go wrong in Copenhagen, I am sure we would be very delighted to see him back in one of these seats. However, let us not talk about that bad possibility, until it happens.Thank you for your answer to my question. I understand that the question of the seat is really for another place, though it would save a lot of energy if we eliminated this building.I am particularly interested since the EU institutions should be setting a lead. I hope we are setting an example to the world by trying to save on energy conservation. So I would suggest that if I table a question to the President-in-Office for the December part-session, perhaps he will give me an undertaking that he will tell me specifically what the Council has done with its own buildings as regards saving energy and setting an example to the world: energy-efficient light switches, for example, or any other measures that the Council is going to adopt within the next six months to set an example to the world.
Mr President, I should firstly like to thank the chairman of the committee, Mrs Redondo, and the rapporteur, Mr Kreissl-Dörfler, for an outstanding piece of work. Unfortunately, the work has not shown unambiguously that there is any alternative to the present non-vaccination policy. It is very clear that there are neither vaccines nor laboratory capacity and that, overall, everything is missing that would be necessary to enable us to abandon the non-vaccination policy. This means that, if a decision on vaccination is to be made, it will be a political decision and not a decision based on scientific and veterinary fact.I want finally to say a little about the consequences in terms of trade policy. The reactions have been very clear. When there is an outbreak of foot and mouth disease, the importing countries – or third countries – exclude all imports of fresh meat from the whole of the EU. The Commission must be required very clearly to ensure that third countries, particularly the United States, accept that the EU consists of Member States and of regions, especially following enlargement in 2004. If foot and mouth disease occurs in a particular country or region, it is not therefore necessary to halt all imports of fresh meat from the whole of the EU. On the contrary, supply and demand become totally chaotic when that happens. That is why I want very clearly to call upon the Commission to renegotiate the agreements, which are nowhere near specific enough at present. If a new case of foot and mouth disease should occur, the agreements must be in place, particularly with the United States, so that exports from those countries that do not have foot and mouth disease can continue.
Mr President, I strongly regret that I was unable to vote in favour of the resolution on Iraq, not because I am a warmonger or because I am in favour of intervention outside the rules of law, but because all of the amendments that have been adopted considerably distorted the original intentions of those who drew up the compromise text and led to a text that considerably dilutes Iraqi responsibilities, which appears to exonerate Iraq from playing any part in the terrorist threat and which, I am convinced, will be received in Iraq with sniggers from Saddam Hussein, not to mention an even more irreverent attitude towards texts produced by Parliament.
Madam President, I note the proposal and if the report on terrorism is not moved by this proposal, then I would have nothing against moving it. Mr Schmid has done an excellent piece of work with his report on Echelon and it is something which must be voted on by the whole House as soon as possible.However, I tend to the view expressed by Mr Vitorino that one has heard of both God and Echelon but one cannot be sure that either of them exists. I also take the view, which I believe, Madam President, is sustained and supported by your words at the beginning of today's sitting, that it is extremely important that we debate and vote on the issue of terrorism – which is a very real one – as soon as possible this week. Should Mr Barón Crespo's proposal not have the effect of moving the report on terrorism then I would be very happy to support it.
Madam President, last week's attacks on innocent civilians in New York and Washington shocked and outraged the civilised people across the world. They show the difficulties faced by any state, especially a democracy, in defending its citizens against terrorists. These atrocities and the subsequent search for those responsible also highlight the weaknesses of our defence of the civilian population and throw into sharp relief the painfully slow progress of EU cooperation in justice and home affairs, so boldly trumpeted in Amsterdam and in Tampere. As the Americans seek the arrest of people on European soil who may be responsible, they must shake their heads in disbelief at the multitude of bilateral extradition agreements, which they will need to employ.I welcome Commissioner Vitorino's statement. The proposals he has put forward today take on board the key recommendations of the report we adopted on 5 September, to which Mr Poettering so kindly referred. They deserve urgent consideration and swift action by Justice and Home Affairs Ministers at their meeting tomorrow. If they are adopted by Council, they will represent a major step forward in forging a common EU anti-terrorism policy. I challenge any minister who may resist these proposals in the secrecy of the Council chamber to explain publicly to citizens in their own country, or across Europe, why they are holding up effective common action in this field.(Applause)However welcome and important the Commission's proposals are, they are clearly insufficient. They provide answers to the world as it was before last Tuesday. They deal with terrorist crimes within the Union but do nothing to improve cooperation with countries outside the EU. They fail to solve conflicts of competence between judicial authorities. They leave cooperation and the vital matter of police affairs subject to a national veto, as Commissioner Vitorino said. If the EU is serious about combating terrorism, we must gear up the operational instruments of common action. We must enable Europol to cooperate effectively with third countries. We must give an external dimension to Eurojust. We must act decisively too, to combat money laundering in the conciliation currently under way and we must develop common policies for the collection and sharing of criminal intelligence, as Mrs Neyts pointed out.Measures are needed too in foreign and security policy: greater cooperation in the UN, in the G8, in the Council of Europe, urging Member States to sign the UN Convention on the financing of terrorism; export controls on sensitive products and tighter association agreements with third countries. But we must guard against a blurring of the second and the third pillars, which last week's Council declaration suggested, and guard too against upsetting the delicate balance between the needs of security and the civil liberties, which our citizens enjoy.I ask whether now is not the time to consign to the rubble of history the clumsy, outdated second and third pillars of the EU cooperation and make their contents core competences of the European Union.(Applause)The fig leaf of national sovereignty serves only to hide the impotence of nation states. Democracy faces supranational challenges and these require a supranational response. Our policies will need public support, so our policymaking will need proper democratic oversight and control. I believe that this House stands ready to play its part. We must now call on our national leaders to show the courage and the vision which the moment demands.(Applause)
Mr President, I agree with the idea that legislation in this sort of area needs to be all-embracing and comprehensive, but, as a farmer, I do not agree with everything in the report, for example, that farm-produced animal feed should also be covered by the measures. I think it is something that cannot be practically applied or monitored. For that reason, we should look into legislation which is reasonable in the sense that it could be monitored and implemented in practice. The sort of legislation that cannot be monitored or implemented in practice will naturally erode Parliament’s credibility, as will the fact too that we should draft such legislation. I will cite Amendment No 18 as an example. How can we monitor what a domestic animal roaming freely drinks or where it drinks?The basic idea is right. Legislation must be all-embracing and comprehensive, but it must also be such as can be put into effect and monitored in practice. The application of legislation to feed produced on a farm is something that cannot be practically implemented or monitored. Otherwise I do agree very much with this overall policy and the basic idea behind it.
Mr President, drugs are, of course, a big problem in Thailand, and it is entirely understandable that the Thai Government, being also under pressure from the international community and from the United States, should wage war on drug smuggling. This war on drugs, however, also has a flip side. During my visit to Dutch prisoners there last week, including Machiel Kuyt, I saw the abject conditions under which she, along with other Europeans, is being held, and how, consequently, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, to which Thailand has been party since 1997, is being violated. Extremely long detentions due to a shortage of judges and overfull prisons illustrate this point. Two things need to happen in order for this situation to change.First of all, in the framework of the country strategy paper on Thailand dating back to May 2002, the European Union should turn its attention to legal aid, so that the seriously overtaxed legal system is relieved and the rights of the suspects are better respected.Secondly, the Union should urge its Member States to conclude bilateral agreements with Thailand, which enables the transfer of prisoners. These agreements already exist with a number of countries, such as Great Britain, Sweden and Denmark, and certainly also with my own country, the Netherlands; other countries should also conclude them, and Thailand is very much in favour of them doing so.
Mr President, I am delighted that Vietnam is on the agenda at last. It has taken a long time. I feel that special praise must go to Mr Dupuis for his assiduousness in this respect, because otherwise we might have had to wait even longer.What do we see in Vietnam? We see a country whose people are becoming more liberal whilst the powers that be are old men who cling for dear life to old ways. It is so tragic, because Vietnam is a country with so much potential. It has a dynamic, healthy and well-educated population. It has natural resources such as oil, fish, coffee, rice and timber. You feel like telling those old men to open the door and success will flood in. Instead, we see a complete lack of press freedom and ongoing political oppression. Just look at how the dissident Ha Is Phu was treated.I am fully aware that the Vietnam debate is historically charged. We must be careful what we say about Vietnam, or at least that has been customary hitherto. After all, the West has had a certain level of involvement in the country. It is historically charged and naturally it is an awkward situation. When it comes to human rights, we cannot say whether the glass is half full or half empty. The glass is not full in Vietnam. That is what it is all about. We work with Vietnam; it is our partner, and so we cannot afford to keep our lips sealed about the situation there.
Mr President, one of the joys of spending time in Belgium and France is the pleasure of these countries' chocolate. It is wonderful, but millions of people in Europe also enjoy the British product. None of them come to any harm in the process. Whatever its content they are happy to call this product chocolate.It is insulting for us to play semantic games about the definition of this word. The citizens we represent are not fools. They can tell the difference between different varieties of chocolate and they have to be allowed to decide for themselves. I have no doubt that this compromise will help the overall market increase. The harsh fact is that none of us, Belgians, French or British, are paying the cocoa growers a fair price for their efforts and the contrast between our enjoyment of this luxury product and their poverty is shameful.
Mr President, it may well be that 100 years ago our cities resounded to the noise of iron wheels and iron hooves bouncing off cobbled stones. I suspect that made a hell of a din. Nonetheless the impression is that our society has become noisier with more machinery, hi-fis and stereos, planes, trains and, above all, motorways. I am all in favour of cutting noise and making life more pleasant, peaceful and calm.I support the Commission's proposals for common measurements so that we all know what we are looking at and what we are hearing across the European Union. I support the idea of noise mapping and I support legislation under single market rules to introduce limits on noise from new equipment being introduced and sold throughout the European Union. But I am opposed to the Union seeking noise limits on installations in any individual Member State. I do so, as I have argued strongly in committee, on the grounds of subsidiarity, in the belief that decisions should be taken at the lowest practical level.In almost every case in the Committee on the Environment, we deal with issues which should rightly be dealt with at European Union level, because they concern matters which affect more than one Member State – transboundary issues. But today I arrived in Parliament, I opened my window in the office in the Tower and I could not hear Strasbourg airport, I could not even hear the railway. All I could hear was someone shouting down in the courtyard. I do not regard noise from airports as a transboundary issue and I am pleased that the committee rejected a number of the amendments which were tabled. I will be urging my group to reject Amendment No 34 here because it still implies that noise limits should be introduced.Mr de Roo commented on Amendment No 36 that the eight-hour sleep limit is essential for everyone. That may be the case. It may also be the case that a cup of cocoa and a bedtime story are essential for everyone but this is not something which should be done at EU level. We should not be setting standards for these things. What is fascinating about this debate, as it was in committee and here now, is that for the best possible reasons – the improvement of health and enhancing the environment – measures have been suggested to us which represent a sort of creeping centralisation which, at the end of the day, makes the European Union seem bossy and interfering to far too many of our constituents. We should take this opportunity, and indeed every opportunity, to put into practice our belief that wherever possible we should be applying strictly the principles of subsidiarity and making sure that when we take measures on behalf of the environment at European Union level it is because they will genuinely make a difference to individuals and cannot be done by individual Member States.
Mr President, it is fantastic to live through this exciting period in the history of Europe when we are finally unifying the continent. I hope that, in just a few years’ time, our new friends and colleagues will be able to sit down here with us in the Chamber instead of just listening from the gallery. We shall then be able to unite in solving the problems that exist and in creating good conditions of life for the citizens of Europe, and not before time.It will soon be twelve years since the fall of the Berlin Wall, and many Europeans promised that those countries which had finally thrown off the yoke of communism would quickly be able to obtain membership of the EU. There is still a great deal to do, and this is also described in the excellent reports we are discussing today. Great progress is being made, and I am delighted that the Belgian presidency has such lofty ambitions. It is important that no more demands should be made now.There is more than a little to do in the EU, as well. Many of us are disappointed at the poor result from Nice and hope that Laeken will prove to be very ambitious. Integration is a mutual process that requires efforts on the part both of ourselves and of the future Member States. However, we together have a huge task in convincing the population in all the countries of the practical benefits of a united Europe. It is also a question of communicating pride in the Europe we have built so far and the Europe we shall build together.
The work done by Portugal, as the country holding the presidency, has not been easy. There have been many difficult questions during the spring, but Portugal has shown that it is a country which takes European issues very seriously. The Feira Summit was in many ways an interim meeting prior to the French Presidency. Unfortunately, the outcome of the Summit was partly overshadowed by the tragedy in Dover, which really raises an issue which urgently needs to be taken up at EU level.The Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party is delighted by the progress which has been achieved on, for example, the tax package and civil crisis management. We are pleased to have it confirmed that Greece is soon to be a member of the currency union. We are delighted about the formulations concerning enlargement. For liberals such as ourselves, no task is more important than that of unifying Europe. Where the reforms and the Intergovernmental Conference are concerned, we are disappointed, however. We should like to have seen more concrete results. Countries are still protecting their positions, and the debate about the EU’s future has only just begun. It is a welcome and wholly necessary debate. It must be conducted in all countries, in an open and unbiased way, and involve the citizens of all Member States.Minimum reforms in Nice will not be enough. Our citizens expect something more. They expect the EU to take proper steps forward towards an open, democratic Europe which can operate effectively with up to 40 Member States. We need to discuss the issues surrounding a constitution. The EU needs a constitution which, in a simple and understandable way, makes it clear what the EU is about and where responsibility lies.The baton has now been handed over to France. I feel a certain unease faced with the different signals emanating from the French Presidency. Even if different EU countries perhaps need, to some degree, to be progressing at different speeds, we hardly need a presidency which is moving at different speeds.
Mr President, on a point of order, because of the historic debates that will take place this part-session there is no Question Time. I had submitted a question to the Council on the legislative process and the way in which this House is potentially being treated in relation to the proposed directive on legal aid.The Council intends to adopt this measure at the end of the month on the basis of a different text to that on which Parliament was consulted. This will avoid the codecision procedure, which would kick in after the end of the month, and it also avoids the strong advice of the Commission that the Council should reconsult Parliament.I should like to know, on behalf of this House, why the Council feels it has no obligation to reconsult us. Does it not agree that this action runs absolutely counter to the principle of mutual respect and good faith between these institutions in the legislative process, as set out in the Treaties and endorsed by the Court of Justice? Mr President, this is serious and I would ask you to look into it.
Regarding Amendments Nos 22-28, which are the subjects of a joint vote, we would state the following. We regard the problem of child pornography with the utmost seriousness, whether it be on the Internet or in other media, and we obviously share the view that both the Member States and the Applicant States should do everything in their power to combat child pornography. In the same way, it is important that joint, effective measures should be taken and that the European Parliament should be kept informed of how this work is progressing.For the same reasons that we have a negative attitude to the proposals to establish special registers of convicted sex offenders (Amendments Nos 21, 30 and 32), we do not consider Amendment No 24 to be politically desirable. Even if it were technically possible, registering the identities of everyone allocated e-mail addresses would constitute too far-reaching a curtailment of personal privacy, as well as risk discouraging such lawful use of the Internet as is much to be desired.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, the service sector is far and away the most important sector in the European economy. The European Union is the biggest exporter of commercial services in the world, accounting for 26% of worldwide trade in services, as opposed to 22% in the United States and 7% in Japan. The trade in services in the European Union therefore accounts for more than two-thirds of our gross foreign product and jobs. So trade in services far exceeds trade in goods. Further liberalisation also benefits developing countries, because trade in services promotes the infrastructure, such as telecommunications, and also the financial infrastructure for the trade in goods. Thus GATS also contributes to the Doha round. In my view we must therefore stand four-square behind liberalisation and in particular avoid focusing too much on the exceptions that some of the Member States want to implement. The most important sectors are the transport, tourism, financial and telecommunications service sectors. Audio-visual services form a relatively small part of the offer. It is therefore ridiculous that Member States who do not want this are denying this Parliament any say because they are afraid of changes to the audio-visual sector. I therefore support my colleague Mr Nicholas Clegg’s plea for change during the Convention.
Mr President, it seems hard to believe that the disunity of the world community as a whole, and the European Union in particular, could reach a lower point than when the 'gang of 8' prime ministers signed their ill-judged letter backing the USA on Iraq. But we are now plumbing new depths of public bickering, with the splits spreading from the UN and the EU to include Nato. Anarchy reigns in our international institutions, and that only provides comfort to Saddam Hussein.If we are to prevent these fissures becoming a chasm, our governments must draw back from their quarrels, return to first principles and move forward on the basis of what unites them. The United Nations, Nato, the European Communities – these institutions have served us well, and they are too valuable to be abandoned in the face of current differences of approach.And if that requires America to show a little patience, that is no bad thing. Public opinion in the US is less united than President Bush pretends – over a third still want a new UN vote to authorise any conflict, and almost a quarter do not want US troops to be sent to Iraq at all. When a former president pleads for patience, and leading Democrat Senator John Kerry hopes for an America: 'where military might is not clouded by our need for oil', is there really bipartisan backing for President Bush, to give him the credibility he needs?Democracy can be difficult, and building support for a position often takes time and good arguments. But it is better to take the time to do it and get it right than to launch into a course of action, half cock. Liberals therefore congratulate the Greek Presidency on convening next Monday's meeting. We trust that all governments will attend. They should come prepared to listen and to seek common ground, not simply to repeat their well-known positions.Europe's leaders too should take care not to overplay their hand. The United Nations High Commission for Refugees is rightly following the maxim that they should prepare for the worst while continuing to hope for the best, by making contingency plans for a possible refugee crisis. As a collective defence organisation, Nato should be guided by the same principle, and it is the responsibility of every Nato country to support Turkey's request for assistance under Article 4 of the North Atlantic Treaty.Given the reservations he expressed last time, Dr Hans Blix's report on Friday will carry particular significance. Those who call for more inspectors should heed his remark that: 'the principal problem is not the number of inspectors but rather the active cooperation of the Iraqi side'. At the same time, if he reports progress towards active cooperation, the US and Britain should give the UN process the space to work.Amid all this gloom, perhaps we can take comfort from one ray of hope. When the inspectors report again on Friday, the eyes of the world will again be focused on the UN Security Council. It will be the body which represents the ultimate authority of the international community and considers Iraq's fate. We should welcome the fact that the UN, established to preserve world peace, is at the heart of the process. Let us keep it there.(Applause)
Mr President, in Africa small elites often deem the struggle for power and wealth more important than the suffering of the population. At first, that did not apply to Guinea. Despite the poverty, it offered a safe refuge for refugees from Sierra Leone and Liberia. Now Guinea, too, is caught up in a regional struggle for power. There is nowhere else for the refugees to go. Thousands are hiding in the jungle or are wandering fearfully in the heat without food, water or hope. If a corridor is not quickly created, an unparalleled humanitarian disaster threatens. There is a great deal at stake. The whole region seems to be heading for chaos. The purchase of weapons is more important than feeding people. Above all, Charles Taylor must take Liberia in hand. It is harrowing to see how indulgently Europe, too, is reacting to this catastrophe. What is the European Union doing, I ask the Commissioner, and when will the petty tyrants in power finally concern themselves with the lot of their people?
Mr President, every year 100 people die in my West Midlands constituency of asbestos-related diseases. Every year 4,500 people die in the UK from these diseases according to the trade unions, and studies predict, as Mrs Thorning-Schmidt said, that in excess of between 250,000 and 500,000 will die cross Western Europe in the next 35 years. The evidence is there. The facts are clear, based on scientific studies. Exposure to asbestos can maim and kill and asbestos workers have to be protected.Manufacturing of asbestos has been banned in almost all Member States, but there are still millions of tonnes of asbestos left in Europe's buildings, industrial plants, railway carriages that were built in the 1950s and the 1960s, etc. I agree with the report that the presence of asbestos has to be presumed in a building if it has not been proved otherwise.Workers will continue to be exposed for many years because of demolition, removal, refurbishment and maintenance still having to take place. That is why I sought further tightening of exposure levels in committee by proposing an amendment, which was accepted by committee, which would effectively halve the exposure allowed. Instead of the eight-hour exposure limit, it was opting for a four-hour exposure limit. It would also reflect the current working patterns within an industry because shifts are a lot less than they are in other sections of the industry. An eight-hour reference period will allow higher levels of exposure over a shorter period like one to two hours, which to my mind is unacceptable. I would like to see this limit for all workers who are exposed to asbestos, with the exception of people working in asbestos cement. I genuinely believe that is a separate case.It is important we do not have different exposure limits, however, depending on the type of work, as Amendment No 21 has, but this will be dealt with in conciliation. I urge you to vote for Amendment No 21 and for the last six words of Amendment No 42. My understanding is that if Amendment No 21 is accepted then we can vote for the last sentence of Amendment No 42 which deals with asbestos cement, but we need clarification on that from the President.I urge you to vote for this excellent report. It is one example of an EU directive where there is compelling scientific and medical evidence that it is needed to save lives across the European Union.
Mr President, the resolution Parliament is now on the way towards adopting is backward-looking. Instead, we should have turned our attention to the future. In my view, it is incomprehensible that, in recent days, so many people have expended so much effort on working out how to deplore the decision taken by the American and British governments concerning military action in Iraq, an action to which my country subscribes.If we did in fact have to be backward-looking, we could have made better use of our time and energy in working out how to condemn the Iraqi regime, which for 12 years has ignored every UN resolution.It is not the coalition that is responsible for the war in Iraq; it is Saddam Hussein and his regime. I must therefore vote against conclusion number 3, and I am unable to deplore or regret the decision taken by the coalition. It was Saddam Hussein who forced them to take it.By an unfortunate turn of events, Saddam Hussein has succeeded in dividing our world, and we must hope that the day will soon come when he can be brought before an international court and tried for his crimes against humanity.Now, we must look forward, as in part does the resolution, I am pleased to say. Now, it is a question of preventing as much suffering as possible in the wake of the war. The Iraqi people have suffered enough. We must therefore be ready to come to their aid, and as soon as possible. We must take joint responsibility for peace and freedom in Iraq. We must help the Iraqi people to a dignified life in a democratic society, a community founded on the rule of law in which human rights are observed and minorities respected. That is the most important aspect of the resolution we are to vote on.IN THE CHAIR: MR DIMITRAKOPOULOSVice-President
Mr President, it is a matter of regret that our debate today has been marred by a small cluster of hostile amendments. These have been put forward by the TDI,et al. I find them unseemly, ill-advised, untimely and inappropriate because these are amendments which use three words – 'genocide', 'Muslim' and 'Asian' – in a way that is racist, derogatory and discriminatory and which causes impenetrable and false barriers to be erected against Turkey's accession to the Union.Muslims follow one of the three Abrahaminic faiths. Islam is the brother of Christianity and Judaism. 'Asian', in this context, is used as a racist term to be deplored and dropped. As regards genocide: Turkey is not responsible for the Armenian massacre. If we accept that, do we then place all of the Ottoman Empire's crimes against humanity at modern Turkey's door? Indeed, the UN Convention of 1948 has not been broadened to include the Armenian tragedy. Until that happens I do not think this Parliament should act differently. I welcome Turkey's careful progress towards the Union and I support the Commission and the Morillon report.
I certainly share the concern that Enrique Barón Crespo has raised at the failure of the Justice and Home Affairs ministers to reach agreement on the proposal for a European arrest warrant. I note, however that, in addition to Mr Verhofstadt's planned visit to Rome, there will be an extraordinary meeting of the Justice and Home Affairs ministers on Thursday of this week. It must be hoped that agreement can be reached on that occasion.The House anticipated that an agreement might not be reached and recommended at least consideration of the use of Article 40 of the Treaty which would allow a number of countries to proceed on the basis of reinforced cooperation. Nobody wants that solution; it must be hoped that we can reach agreement between 15, but, one country must not be allowed to hold up progress in the fight against terrorism called for by the Heads of State and Government in Ghent.(Applause from the left and the centre)
Mr President, on behalf of the Liberal Democrats, I would like to say that we are very satisfied by this Sharm el-Sheikh Memorandum which will strengthen the tiring peace process in the Middle East, and we hope that it will bring it to a conclusion. In the Liberal Democrats’ opinion, Europe must continue to give its firm backing to the peace process and cooperation in the Middle East. But it must make commitments, not just on an economic level, but also on a political and cultural level and acquire a stature and political weight recognised in the region and the rest of the world. However, in defending the right to self-determination we believe that all parties must be urged to make real commitments against terrorism to ensure people’s security.
Mr President, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on this report. We, in the, welcome the thrust of the report, because it grapples with the real issues and it avoids the sort of populist solutions which, I am afraid, are on offer in many of the amendments before this House. I am particularly thinking of the Tobin tax. It is, of course, the case that nobody, particularly liberals in favour of free inquiry, could object to the Commission's study on this subject. But I frankly believe that this is a false promise which really offers very little practical benefit to the countries that we are all, I hope, trying to help.Instead, the report quite correctly identifies as a potential model, the Chilean deposit system, which introduces an incentive for investors to invest long-term in an emerging market rather than going for short term paper because that involves a longer-term investment for depositors. That is the right way to go, and therefore I very much congratulate the rapporteur and hope that we will not support the amendments to an excellent report.
Mr President, I congratulate the Commissioner on having brought the accession countries to a stage where fewer than 40 serious concerns were raised out of the 140 elements of the acquis. Most of those concerns are in the area of health and food legislation, or of public administration. Without making light of the concerns, is the Commissioner confident that the obstacles can be overcome by next May?Moreover, on Bulgaria and Romania, a clear difference is emerging. I should like to ask the Commissioner whether he will give the clear signal that Sofia has asked for on the Union's final requirements, and whether he will be tough with the Romanians on the very substantial progress that Romania still has to make.I welcomed the Commissioner's remarks on Turkey. The reforms of Prime Minister Erdogan's government are real and must be welcomed. They must be fully implemented; Commissioner, you are right to demand more, particularly regarding political rights and Cyprus. But let us acknowledge Turkey's very strident steps forward and I hope that the Commission will commit itself to finding all of the resources possible for working with Turkey to help it towards membership.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, today we are talking as Europeans; we do not bring to this House opinions on the internal politics of our countries. In the next six months Europe must start moving faster; the constitutional treaty for a Europe of 25 should make the world realise whether our continent will continue to be a driving force for economic and social progress and, after the serious Iraqi crisis, whether it will equip itself with effective means to take a leading role in matters of security and freedom in partnership with the United States, in a new multilateral cooperation. As a European, therefore, I hope for a successful Italian Presidency working in close collaboration with the Commission under Romano Prodi and with our Parliament.Today, Mr President-in-Office, you have been cautious and made an effort to present your programme along lines of collaboration with the other countries and not in discontinuity with Italy’s traditional policy for Europe. We need to be bolder, however, if we do not want our compromises to slip away, especially as regards control of the economy, foreign policy and the necessary new defence policy, so as to minimise the risk of paralysis due to the need for unanimity. Over these six months we expect a radical change that can remove the reasons for all the criticism, scepticism and concern that have surrounded these first few days of the period with you at the helm. Indeed, it is not the internal politics of one country but all Europe that is calling for an end to conflicts of interest and media concentrations. It is the liberal fundamentals of the separation of powers and the balance among the powers as reflected in the European Treaties which we have freely signed and by which we are bound. The spirit of Rome of the 1957 Treaty was based on a daring vision of the future, and it constructed fifty years of democracy, prosperity and peace. If we are guided by that vision, even from alternative political positions, we shall harvest common fruits for the good of Europe and its future.(Applause)
Mr President, I should like to thank you very much, Commissioner Monti, for the courage and the will you have shown in tabling this proposal. The Commission’s proposal is a step in the right direction, but we should like to have seen it go further in terms of free consumer choice, and the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party will therefore be tabling some amendments tomorrow. We were, however, obliged to support the Commission’s proposal in order to avoid any further watering down. There are many interests at stake, with many interested parties involved, and, as you yourself, Mr Monti, recently mentioned in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, some of these interested parties will stop at nothing in their attempt to organise future car sales in the way that suits them best. Unfortunately, the car manufacturers’ view of what is in their own best interests does not coincide with what is beneficial for consumers. We have clearly seen this in the form of the massive lobbying that has gone on everywhere in recent weeks and months in order to prevent a genuine internal market for car sales being established, with the consequent benefits for both dealers and consumers. We are surely not giving away too much by naming names and saying that it was, in particular, a couple of major German car manufacturers, Mercedes and BMW, who knocked on our door.A majority in the European Parliament obviously do not want all the benefits, however, while many of the key aspects of the Commission’s original proposal were voted down in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. I had hoped we might have been able to reach a sensible compromise but, unfortunately, I have to say that I have been disappointed in this matter by a number of my otherwise good friends and allies in the Group of the Europe People’s Partyand in the Group of the. I should nonetheless like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Konrad, for the sound work he has done and for having tried to move things in the right direction. I should like to conclude by giving Commissioner Monti the greatest possible encouragement to stand firm on this matter and by, for once, asking him not to listen to the majority of the European Parliament who have not known how to look after the interests of the ordinary citizen and consumer. My message is therefore: do not allow special interests to steer developments in a direction which is of benefit neither to dealers, consumers nor the overall European economy.
Thank you, Mr President. President-in-Office of the Council, the Commission’s draft mid-term review of agricultural policy is a sound basis for embarking upon the discussions of a future reform of the EU’s agricultural policy.The decision on long-term funding, taken at the Brussels Summit, creates the background for enlargement. That is good and is something on which the Presidency should be commended. Any reform should be centred on farmers and consumers. It should be dynamic, and it should be a continuation of the liberalisation begun at the Berlin Summit in 1999. It should cover adjustments in response to the market economy and to world market prices and also, therefore, a curtailment of, and change to, the familiar policy of subsidy.The period up until 2006 should therefore be used for preparing a reform of the EU’s agricultural policy that makes European farmers competitive in the future world market.
Mr President, Commissioner, unlike many other MEPs, I am not in the habit of routinely thanking the rapporteur. I only do so when there is a reason. Today, we do have reason for thanking Diana Wallis for displaying what has most emphatically been the patience of a saint and the stamina of an athlete in drawing up this report.I want to emphasise that the majority of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party supports her and the amendments she has tabled on the Group’s behalf. I also want to point out that the debate has been frustrating to some degree. If the same energy had been put into developing confidence-building systems instead of into lobbying which has not always been very professional, I believe that a lot would already have happened to create the confidence and confidence-building systems which are required if consumers are to have the courage to begin trading.One great merit of this piece of work is the importance which the rapporteur and Parliament attach to consumer-friendly dispute-resolution mechanisms and the pressure they have brought to bear in order to obtain these. This is important, and I do not believe that the same weight would have been given to this issue if this work had not been done. As has been repeated a great many times, the biggest dispute, as we all know, has been about which court is to have competence in matters relating to electronic commerce. This is an issue which will set a precedent, and that is why we have seen such vigorous lobbying. It is a question with which we shall be confronted many times in connection, for example, with tax issues and cyber crime. We must resolve the issue of which is to be the competent court. I believe that there is a lot to indicate that, in the future, we must have clearer rules specifically in connection with places of domicile. We cannot proceed as often on the basis of where events have taken place. This also emerged yesterday from our seminar on cyber crime. What is to be taken as the domicile address? That is why it is important that we should establish today that it is the consumer’s domicile address which matters in the end.Finally, I should like to ask those who are going to support the majority of the committee in the vote how they can look consumers in their own countries in the eye when the latter become aware that the view of the majority of the committee will, in practice, lead to their being denied access to their own courts.I should like finally to strike a biblical note. I once met an old man who said, ‘I am in no doubt at all that, when I speak to my God, I can speak in my own language. I also hope, however, that the same will apply in the courts I may be called before’.
Mr President, I wish to begin by thanking the rapporteur.The Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party supports Mrs Swiebel’s report. We think that the report provides an important and useful survey of the situation regarding fundamental rights within our own European Union. Certainly, the issue can be raised of the scope of the report as regards both choice of subjects and political content. We can also dispute a number of the wordings and examples, but I believe we can probably learn from the work in time for next year’s report. We do not therefore agree with the basic criticism made of the report.We require many other countries to comply with the demands concerning fundamental rights. That is why it is all the more important for us to examine what kind of order our own house is in. It is good to look elsewhere, but sometimes it is good to look at one’s own situation. Unfortunately, there are all too many indications in this report that the situation could have been significantly better in our own countries.We all agree about the importance of doing everything in our power to combat those who would use violence and terrorism to damage the foundations of our society. There is of course a broad consensus on this issue. There is perhaps, however, cause to stand up and ask ourselves whether the end always justifies the means. Might the repressive means that the democracies are sometimes compelled to use in the fight for democracy and the open society also constitute a threat to the values we are defending? The question deserves to be asked. To make it a rule to introduce sunset clauses, that is to say time-limited legislation when it comes to this type of special legislation infringing personal privacy, is, we believe, a reasonable route to go down.An adjacent and current topic that is really only indirectly related to this, namely the debate on torture in the United States, addressed by, for example, The Economist, obviously influences us too here in Europe. We Liberals also welcome open discussion of the inadequate conditions in many EU prisons, as well as of action by the police. It is my conviction that the democratic institutions are sufficiently robust to cope successfully with such a discussion. Our democracy is also strong enough to enable its expedients to be discussed openly. My own country too is criticised in this report. Mrs Swiebel’s report is important, and it is important that the debate on racism, xenophobia and anti-Semitism be conducted here in Parliament. Let us not therefore turn the discussion into an internal and national affair. It is about something much larger.Allow me in conclusion to emphasise asylum and refugee policy within the European Union. Many crimes against fundamental rights have taken place, and continue to take place, in these spheres. In particular, the children of refugees have a bad time of it, something which should cause all governments to feel ashamed. If we cannot agree on anything else, we ought in any case in this Assembly to be able to agree that all children require additional protection.Opinion forming is important. Let us not forget that. Let us perhaps look at what happened at the weekend in the United States as evidence of the fact that opinion forming can in actual fact also be effective. We have amendments by the  Group on the subjects of family relations and the concept of the family. These are by way of clarification.
Mr President, previous speakers have said that we have repeatedly condemned the violence that is happening in Afghanistan and the human rights violations that take place every day. What are we to do, however, when the situation gets worse for women and for the Hazars, as mentioned today? We have a situation in which 170 civilians were executed in January and, as mentioned by Mr Dupuis and the others, there have been attacks in Yakaolang. What are we to do?On the other hand, we know that, after the Tampere Summit in 1999, the EU approved a recommendation from a high-level working party concerning how we should deal with the Afghan situation. I believe that this strategy needs to be soberly appraised. We need to review it again. How should our embassies in Pakistan receive people who apply to be allowed to come to our countries? I have heard it said that they are sometimes treated like criminals.I am pleased to see that we are seeking an Echo office in Afghanistan, something which should be reiterated. We must also give our support to the Christian organisations that are working in Afghanistan. There are Christian organisations that are doing an incredible amount for the Afghan population while maintaining a low profile. They, too, need our support. As has also been said by other speakers, we must also devote ourselves to getting the arms embargo into force and to ensuring that the UN gains access to the country in order, for example, to investigate the atrocities committed against the Hazars.These are some of the measures that are needed. We cannot get any further by condemning matters time after time. One feels really powerless. We need a more intelligent policy in this sphere. I think that our experience in areas close to home has shown that a presence in the country can also yield good results and, above all, has a humanitarian basis.
I am very pleased that, against the advice of the rapporteur, Mr Liese, the European Parliament has today opened the door to the funding of research into embryonic stem cells.Through this vote, the European Parliament is delivering a genuine message of hope to all patients (diabetics, those suffering from Parkinson’s and Alzheimer’s diseases and people with chronic heart failure and other diseases). It gives researchers the means of finding, and perhaps soon, remedies for incurable diseases.There are three reasons why I voted as I did. Firstly, my vote was perfectly consistent with the position adopted by the Strasbourg plenary on 15 May 2002 on the Sixth Framework Programme for Research and Development. The creation of embryos from gametes donated for the purpose of obtaining stem cells is therefore prohibited.Secondly, the five Member States opposed to any funding of embryonic stem cell research will not be able to prevent Europe from advancing, since such funding is in the interests of Europeans awaiting treatment.Thirdly, the opponents of this form of regenerative medicine find their position to be self-contradictory. They are people who consider that the embryo is an entirely independent living being from the first day but who are in favour, however, of the destruction of supernumerary embryos cultivated for the purposes of in vitro fertilisation.(Explanation of vote abbreviated in accordance with Article 137 (1) of the Rules of Procedure)
Mr President, formally, and not in writing, I withdraw the resolution.
Mr President, I wish to begin by thanking the rapporteur and saying that the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party supports the report. Even though we may have different views on certain parts of it, we should be able to agree that this survey is useful and significant.I should nonetheless have liked to have seen more practical examples. Mr Cornillet, I wonder for what purpose we should have this report if we did not single out a number of countries. If the EU is to set an example to the world, we cannot put blinkers on and not put our own house in order. What credibility would we then have in the surrounding world? The question to the Commission and the Council is, of course: what practical measures are you taking to tackle the problems?I wish to comment on three areas. The first is the EU’s and the Member States’ asylum policy, which deserves to be criticised. There is a political anxiety whereby all the countries apparently feel able to compromise fundamental legal principles. Naturally, we must put an end to human smuggling and prevent the asylum system from being misused, but we cannot send refugees back to be tortured or ill-treated. We must give all children who find their way to the EU the chance of a life of dignity. There are many deficiencies in this area, including in my own country.The second area is prison conditions. We have overcrowded prisons, extensive violence and increasing problems involving ex-prisoners’ readjustment to society. Europe must have prisons that are fit for human beings.The third area concerns a sensitive but important issue. The EU Charter of Fundamental Rights states clearly and unambiguously that ‘[t]he freedom and pluralism of the media shall be respected’. I agree with Mr Eurig Wyn on this matter and wonder if it is perhaps an irony of fate that it is the Italian Presidency that is to get the Member States to agree upon a constitution that Italy, through its prime minister’s monopoly on the media, clearly and unambiguously violates. We cannot have this situation. I want, in conclusion, to ask you, Commissioner, what you are doing about this sensitive matter. The situation in the Italian media is the whole of Europe’s responsibility, including yours, Mr Vitorino.
Mr President, I wish to begin by congratulating Mr Fatuzzo on his report on a subject I know is close to his heart. I have two points to make, and they are in actual fact the same two points Mr Kuckelkorn touched upon, one concerning the open method of coordination for pensions and the other concerning the internal market for supplementary pension schemes.Open coordination, through which the Member States set common objectives and guidelines for future policy in the pensions area, analyse developments and exchange experiences, is in many ways a fruitful form of cooperation. It is especially heartening that the debate on future pensions is no longer concerned only with national finances and with how expensive it will become over the next ten years because of the many pensioners. It is a good thing that the Member States are talking together about how we ensure that good, secure conditions for pensioners can be afforded in the future. However, I wish nonetheless to highlight the problem that exists with open coordination, namely the democratic deficit. The objectives and guidelines agreed by the Member States for future pensions are initially drawn up by so-called ‘high level’ representatives in the shape of officials despatched by the governments of the Member States. The agreements are then confirmed by ministers of the Member States who, it must then be assumed, have popular mandates. It is a case of having to ‘assume’ because there is no democratic debate on this matter here. When we adopt legislation in the EU, there are public debates in the Member States, that is to say in the national parliaments. There is a system for consulting special interest groups so that the politicians have an objective basis for making decisions. Here in the European Parliament, we have our open debates so that the public can hear and understand what the arguments are behind our decisions and so that special interest groups can make their presence felt in the debates. Open debate and this basis for decision-making are totally absent when countries cooperate by means of open coordination. If we are serious about this cooperation and want to see it reflected in actual policy, then the doors must be thrown open when decisions are made concerning objectives and guidelines. The national parliaments must be far more actively involved, and local authorities and special interest groups must play their part. The European Parliament can also play a positive role in this cooperation, for it is in this context that we of course bring all cultures together and look at things in their overall context. It cannot be emphasised enough that efforts must be made to democratise open coordination, and I would urge the Council to address this subject. Cooperation on a subject such as future pensions, in particular, demands transparency, for this is a subject that deeply affects us all, and I believe that a lot of the fear concerning the possible implications of pension reforms could be exorcised through greater openness.The second point I wish to mention briefly is that of calling upon the Council and the Commission to bring about the speedy adoption of the Directive on Supplementary Pensions. It must, of course, be the right form of directive that we adopt. We must avoid constricting rules that hamper existing schemes. With that in mind, however, it is important to get things moving. By means of common rules, we can make life easier for employees in companies that operate across borders and can promote competition and efficiency on the part of pension providers.
I am not sure whether I have listened to everything with due care, but I thought that the Commissioner was also going to issue a detailed report on the nitrofen problem in Germany. I missed it. Is it scheduled for later? If so, with the President’s permission, I should like to ask a question on that subject.
Madam President, I am deeply concerned, Commissioner. Listening to our fellow MEP, Mr Davies is extremely depressing. More and more young people in Europe are ending up in the type of squalor brought about by drugs. The trend is in the wrong direction. Mr Davies thinks so too, but more and more EU countries appear to have given up. In this Chamber too, voices in favour of legalising and liberalising drugs and classifying them as dangerous and less dangerous are being heard more and more often.Here in Parliament, there is a desire to tear up the UN conventions on drugs. These are what we have to hold onto, Commissioner. I am afraid that European drugs policy is on the decline. The overall tenor of Mrs Malliori’s report is, unfortunately, along those lines, even though certain parts of it are constructive, for example the demand for drugs-free prisons. That being said, it is quite unreasonable to begin talking about the ‘upside’ of drugs and about chill-out rooms and injecting rooms. Drug policy must free addicts from dependence, not sanitise dependence. The only way to achieve that goal is through a combination of bans, care, preventive work and international cooperation.The objective, which has to remain in place, must be a drugs-free society. We Swedish Liberals will vote against the report because it lacks this overall combination.
Mr President, I would prefer that we would have had no directive whatsoever on whole-body vibration, because even the ISO Standard report says there is no quantitative link between whole-body vibration and lower back pain. However, having said that, I am very pleased that we have reached an agreement. It is not ideal, but it is better than it might have been. I would have liked it if we had kept the derogation for agriculture and forestry. That was extremely important, but I am pleased, however, that we have agreed that agricultural machinery will not have to be changed until 2014, that is, if the machinery has already been bought by 2007.I am also pleased that we have moved back to the common position limit value of 1.15 m/s2. It is far better than what theGroup rapporteur suggested in the first place, which was 0.7 m/s2. TheGroup suggested 0.8 m/s2. We have moved back to something that is reasonably sensible. If we had not, tractor and dumper-truck drivers would have had to drive their tractor or their dumper-truck for between two to four hours. There is still going to be a problem with harvest time, but most of industry can cope with this apart from the agriculture sector.Those of us who insisted that the levels suggested in the first edition of the report were unworkable won the day. I would like to congratulate everybody on the hard work they put in. We have achieved a worthwhile compromise. It is not ideal, but I will reluctantly be asking my group, , to vote for the directive.
Mr President, Commissioner, I firstly want to thank Mrs Gillig for the considerable, and very skilled, work she has done on this report. The result is a well-balanced report, which I support.Parts of the report contain some basic attitudes with which I cannot agree. Globalisation and free trade are at times presented as prejudicial to social development in the world, but I basically think it is the opposite way around. For the developing countries in particular, free trade is the way out of poverty and social deprivation. Social development and workers’ rights are most to the fore in countries with open economies, while the worst examples of basic workers’ rights being infringed are to be found in countries which seal themselves off from the world around them. Basically, then, I think that free trade benefits social development but, that being said, we must of course ensure that the ILO Conventions are effectively complied with so that workers are guaranteed proper working conditions, for I agree with Mrs Gillig that free trade and economic growth are not enough.The Commission’s report shows that the task of ensuring that the Conventions are complied with is one which the ILO does not have the ability to implement, and that is why it has to be asked what it is we ourselves can do. Given the nature of the case, I shall reject the instrument of trade sanctions, but it is important for the EU to put the issue on the agenda at international forums. Unfortunately, not all countries share our view of workers’ rights. We must therefore put the pressure on.It is also only right that workers’ rights should become a natural part of efforts to combat poverty so that, when we provide aid to developing countries, we also factor in workers’ rights.Finally, it is important for us to make an effort in the education field, incorporating information about workers’ rights into vocational training so that such rights can be implemented, both in our own part of the globe and in the poor countries of the world.
Mr Morillon has written a good report stressing that neither religious objections nor geo-strategic considerations are the decisive factors for Turkey's accession.The challenge for Turkey in fulfilling the Copenhagen criteria is to reform not only the constitution but also its political and intellectual inspiration. In Western Europe ideas of pluralism and differentiated identities within the same State have led to recognition of cultural, linguistic and political rights and devolution. Turkey needs to adopt these modern European notions of diversity and the right to be different. The Kemalist ideology that was modern in 1930 is not so in 2000. Hence my amendments on the need for a political solution for the Kurdish people.It is unacceptable that the Commission omitted any mention of the Kurds from the accession partnership document, though they have been referred to in successive regular reports and Mr Verheugen mentioned them this morning.I hope Parliament and the Council will remedy that omission. It does not help Turkey or the European Union to fight shy of this issue, the biggest single cause of Turkey's poor human rights record. Until there is a solution for the Kurds there will be no fulfilment of the Copenhagen criteria and I therefore call upon Parliament to pass my amendments, and on the Council and Parliament to insist that a solution for the Kurds is a key to unlocking the problems of Turkey fulfilling the Copenhagen criteria.
Mr President, I too would like to thank the rapporteur for her excellent work in connection with this report. A really excellent proposal has been produced, thanks to cooperation. The definition of renewable energy sources approved by the committee is a reasonably successful and all-embracing one. Peat must also be included in it, as many of my colleagues have argued with persuasion here. Increasing the use of renewable energy can reduce dependence on oil and also create jobs in sparsely populated regions. In addition, it is an important means of cutting greenhouse gases in the Community.I think it is good that we are setting our sights high, but it is most important that we can agree common targets with credibility and, furthermore, with commitment, which is what the rapporteur referred to here earlier on. I think the principle whereby the directive can create a framework for the increased use of renewables in the production of electricity is a good one. Although it will be left to the Member States to decide on the promotional measures to be used and to implement them, we also need increased input from the Union.
Mr President, while fully supporting the accession of Cyprus, I question whether the Union is trying hard enough to bring about a settlement of the dispute. The minister says that he supports the UN and is monitoring the talks, but why is he not offering the services of the Council in trying to broker a solution? Why are the Commission and the Council blocking the opening up of trade with the North? It is only the pro-active involvement of Europe that will assure the two sides that Union membership profoundly and radically changes the context of their mutual relationship. Conflict resolution should be at the centre of the Cypriot accession and the Union should prove itself far more creative, and even ingenious, than it has been so far.
The current European leaders only want to speak with one voice when it comes out of their own mouths. The common foreign and security policy is evidently not important enough to make concessions for it. As long as the renationalisation of foreign policy continues in the European Union, common defence will remain up in the air like a rudderless bomber with bickering pilots. Both the extremely stretched British loyalty to Washington and continuing French anti-Americanism are a poor guide for European policy. We must be absolutely sure to prevent an enlarged Union breaking up into pro and anti-American camps.Good Atlantic relations are of fundamental importance for Europe, for America and also for the rest of the world. If the United States can impose their Pax Americana, this is partly the fault of the current European leaders. As long as they blatantly adhere to what they feel is right and invest too little Europe as a whole in defence, we are condemned to a supporting role on the world stage. The European Union must certainly be capable of acting militarily on its own continent, preferably in a NATO context, but if it must independently too. The telescoping and strengthening of military resources lays a foundation for a common and strong security policy. The development of a European strategic concept with the emphasis on crisis prevention is a splendid objective. Something will only come of it if European leaders speak exclusively with one voice. Otherwise they will do better to remain silent.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my group I would first of all like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Ayuso González, for the important preparatory work she has done with regard to this vital issue. We are now taking the first step in the right direction, although the use of biofuels must be promoted far more vigorously from here on in. I think the targets should be binding, which is what Parliament insisted on at first reading. Parliament’s position also took account of the different circumstances that exist in the Member States by making it possible to have temporary derogations. I well understand the rapporteur’s willingness to show flexibility with regard to the mandatory nature of the targets in order for any real progress to be made in this important area. This time we shall not get any further ahead. The compromise amendments are satisfactory.Many factors speak in favour of increased use of biofuels. Firstly, by promoting their use we reduce the need for imported energy and hence the EU’s dependence on external energy production, and especially oil imports. Secondly, biofuels are a renewable energy source and therefore a much better option in terms of the environment than petroleum products. I also regard as very important the point of view that biofuels are a means of boosting employment. That means new opportunities for farms and also where agricultural competitiveness is facing huge difficulties in the more traditional areas.
Mr President, the UN Charter of Human Rights states that everyone has the right to life, liberty and security of person. Last year, 31 countries breached this crucially important article, which supports what is human and alive and promotes a civilised and humane society. Thirty-one countries believed they had the right to take the lives of their own citizens. According to Amnesty International, a total of 1 526 people were executed in these 31 countries, and 3 284 people were condemned to death in 67 countries. Slightly more than 80% of the executions took place in three countries: China, Iran and the United States. Commissioner, Minister, you know all this.China is the worst of them all. It is nonetheless deeply tragic to have to place the democratic United States on the same list as the two dictatorships. As a sincere friend of the United States, that pains me a great deal. How can a democratic and civilised country such as the United States continue to apply the death penalty? In the United States, the number of executions increased last year to 71, compared to 66 the year before.I do not in actual fact believe, Mr President, that many Americans are aware that the United States does not fulfil the requirements for becoming a member of the EU, and I am convinced that the United States should be influenced to change its attitude. That would make it so much more difficult for other countries in the League of Death. Might the American people be less open to the facts than us Europeans? Thousands of innocent people have been condemned to death and executed. Might the American people be less humane than ourselves? No, that is not true, but, in that case, more courageous leaders are needed who wish, and dare, to take up the debate in pursuit of justice and human dignity.Is it possible, Commissioner and Minister, to engage in bargaining when it comes to the total abolition of the death penalty? I doubt it. I believe that a very clear approach is required in this area. This popular revolt against the death penalty, the first step in which is a worldwide moratorium, must be supported wholeheartedly by the EU and the Italian Presidency. You must not hesitate in this area, gentlemen. The responsibility lies with yourselves, Minister and Commissioner. The death penalty must be abolished. It is not negotiable.
Mr President, the European Parliament has, on various occasions, approved texts which state that the death penalty is an assault on human dignity, on human rights and it is a great pity that we have to establish once again that the death penalty still exists among our American friends and that, regrettably, the number of executions is increasing – there have been 350 since 1990. What I find particularly distressing is the fact that young people as well, people under 18, can also be sentenced to death, and even the mentally handicapped can be sentenced to death. Those are particularly depressing aspects of the text now before us.Every execution is an irreversible act and that makes it so extraordinary. In the case we are discussing here it was not life imprisonment that was imposed, but the death penalty, and that is on the basis of facts that were not proven beyond any doubt. For that reason even the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights asked for time to re-examine the case and to be able to issue an opinion, and it also asked that no date be set for an execution. We must urge the Americans to act not only in this specific case, but to ensure that the death penalty is abolished in their country. Together with a few other countries where democracy is a long way off, they are the only ones where the number of death sentences is rising. This is by no means an enviable record. Our Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party has repeatedly argued in favour of the abolition of the death penalty, not only in this specific case, but in general. More specifically, I would ask our American friends to abolish it once and for all.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, as Mr von Wogau has pointed out in the presentation of his report – which has my Group’s full support – we are at an historic moment, with the culmination of the process of introducing the euro so close, but we are also, as has been said, at a delicate moment for the European economy. The forecasts, which were rosier some months ago, have had to be revised downwards. There is enormous resistance to setting the inflation rate at the target of 2% and there is clear concern about the current economic situation.This obviously leads to the question of what is the correct way to try to overcome this situation and ensure solid and sustained growth.In this respect, Mr von Wogau’s report contains many elements which should be taken into account, but I would like to highlight some of them which we have already stressed. There are some which we have in fact mentioned in various debates.The first is the need for Member States to remain rigorous and resolute with regard to the commitments established in the respective stability programmes: we are worried that there may be flexibility – in the field of deficit and public debt – with regard to those issues intended to ensure that objectives are achieved and complied with.We would also like to mention the need for better and greater coordination of economic policies – you know that we are not satisfied with the current level of coordination, and this Parliament has stressed this on many occasions – and we would like to stress the issue of structural reforms and the need for flexibility in certain markets which affect the productive structure of the European Union, such as the labour market, and, obviously, the process of liberalisation in certain sectors also considered to be key sectors.
Commissioner, the half-heartedness of the Commission alarms me and I would say that, perhaps, one suggestion should be taken on board: avoid the capitalist trap, be offensive and, if you will allow the expression, “be liberal”.I would like to ask the Commission if it can commit itself to a firm basis comprising three main points. Why not commit yourselves to humanist values and dare to say that we must recognise the fundamental social standards defined by the ILO? Why not require quality standards on a global level, and therefore demand the same rights and the same responsibilities of all economies and businesses? Why not argue for diversity on an international level and demand, for everyone, a cultural exception and an agricultural exception?Finally, a wish and, in any case, a will. I do not think it is good for the European Parliament to accept the possible position of the Commission and then leave it to the end of the round to pass judgement. We must always work alongside the Commission, but also see to it that the Parliament is not just a ratification Chamber, but may make its point of view count.(Applause)
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first I wish to thank the rapporteurs for drafting these reports. The amendments to directives have improved some, if I may say so, rather poor proposals by the Commission. The amendments adopted by the committee, however, do not as yet go far enough, as has been said here in a good number of speeches.Responsibility for maintaining security of energy supply lies mainly with national energy policy. To improve security of supply we also have to conclude agreements with other countries. Member States must be able to decide freely on the organisation of security stocks. Some Member States of the Union have abandoned the use of public stockholding bodies. They have succeeded in organising matters efficiently and cost-effectively by other means. That is why Member States should be able to determine and decide when it is permissible to site oil stocks in another Member State without jeopardising security of supply. Siting security stocks abroad must, however, be carried out on the basis of contracts between the countries and in compliance with current practice.The special circumstances obtaining in each Member State have to be taken into account to ensure supplies of energy. To improve security of supply it is also important to ensure that there is a diversity of energy sources and an even distribution of energy providers. I also wish to remind everyone that promoting the use of local renewable energy increases security of supply, reduces dependence on imports of energy and also creates employment.
Mr President, I should like to congratulate you on the very calm and efficient way in which you chaired that vote. It augurs well.However, there is hardly any other Parliament which would have voted that number of amendments to a report. Few Members in this House can have been expected to know what they were voting on. They are at the mercy of their colleagues and the whips. The procedure does little to enhance democracy and it is an unedifying and indeed incomprehensible spectacle for citizens who are following our work.(Applause)I urge you, in your term in office, to ensure a thorough reform of the decision-making procedures of this Assembly.(Applause)
Madam President, I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the rapporteur and the Commissioner on the result achieved with this important report. By combining and simplifying various directives in this field, more than 10% of gross European product is covered, and a more transparent and simple directive is to be welcomed with open arms.However, I am disappointed with the surfeit of amendments, and it will become necessary in future to use a different system because, due to the multitude of detailed amendments, it will be impossible for fellow MEPs who do not have an intimate knowledge of the content of the report to know what they will be voting on.The European procurement policy aims to give the economy a shot in the arm and to involve small and medium-size companies more in the contracts to be awarded by authorities. This is a noble-minded enterprise, to which I, as a Liberal, give my unqualified support.I am satisfied with the outcome of the vote on the possibility of exclusion on the grounds of social and environmental criteria. The functioning of companies within the standards prescribed by the client should under no circumstances form the basis for exclusion. Needless to say, everyone should adhere to the law, provided this is generally applicable. I am pleased that the social and environmental criteria which can be prescribed now only pertain to products and/or services delivered and thus not to the conduct of the supplying companies.Although finally, for reasons of my own, I have voted against increasing the thresholds, I am in agreement with the 50% increase out of practical considerations. Needless to say, the amounts which were agreed as thresholds in the WTO Agreement remain applicable, but not for contracts which fall outside the scope of that agreement. The contracts which can be awarded beneath the thresholds will naturally also benefit the SMEs – the regional companies, that is – and this is, in a sense, what adopting a social policy within the regions means.Having spent two years on the above-mentioned directive, the result is something to be proud of, although, needless to say, it is difficult to please everyone on every score.
Mr President, thank you, also for this piece of advice. Freedom of expression and particularly the independence of the media help guarantee and promote democracy in the world. The persecution of journalists in their profession is a sign of incapacity to respect a democratic structure, but this is a rule rather than an exception. Even today, journalists around the world are the subject of censorship, physical sanctions and infringements of personal dignity. In many cases, the journalists involved get killed. The problem lies, of course, in Russia where, since Putin took up office, we have seen fresh developments in Russia’s post-Soviet media market. The trend is clear. The Kremlin is trying to impose its will on Russia’s national networks ORT, RTR and NTV, and to develop an ideology in which the media will only be able to advertise State interests.We were able to witness this again recently when on 10 May, the Attorney General burst in on Echo Moscow, a radio station, and confiscated all financial and commercial documents. Where this will end in Russia, we do not yet know, but it is clear that that country’s democracy is in crisis.Needless to say, we also need to keep a watchful eye on democracy in Europe. The President of Italy has been mentioned a moment ago, who owns a company which owns, inter alia, three television channels, as well as the largest national publishing house, which, in turn, publishes magazines that support that politician. I find the initiative of Mr Van den Bergan interesting one to contemplate. In fact, we should also be aware that this phenomenon not only occurs in Italy, of course. Maybe in England too, there is a media monopoly, and that is to the advantage of thegovernment in the light of the pending elections. There are similar developments in other countries too. It seems to me to be a good idea for the European Parliament to look into this issue and to see what it can do about it, for it concerns us all.
Mr President, Commissioner, Minister, I wish to concentrate on a single point, namely the issue of the Commission’s reforms, which are of course an important priority, in this year’s budget too. There have been quite a few speakers here today who have stated that there are things in the budget process that could be done better and that the institutions should in future work better together, even though this budget has proceeded very peacefully under the expert direction of Parliament’s Mr Costa Neves and Mrs Buitenweg.However, I also think that, in certain areas, we should give some thought to how we act in Parliament. In next year’s budget, money has thus been set aside for early retirement and new appointments in order to ensure that the Commission obtains the right manpower for carrying out its tasks. In Parliament, we have demanded information as a condition of the appropriations, and the Commission has, on several occasions, reported in detail on the staffing situation. There is a majority in the Committee on Budgets that has wanted to place a large amount of money in reserve until further information has been provided.I think we must be careful, in making our demands, that we are not too pedantic and do not require too much detail. Otherwise, we shall end up obstructing the reforms rather than promoting them. We must, of course, ensure that taxpayers’ money is managed efficiently and transparently, but I believe it is important for us to concentrate our attention more on results than on detailed management of the Commission’s administration, for that would not promote responsibility. I think that we in Parliament should honour the obligingness and openness shown by the Commission and either release those items that are in the reserve or at least be content to keep a smaller amount in the reserve so that the Commission obtains reasonable conditions.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, biotechnology is currently one of the most promising technologies which can bring about a breakthrough in the medical world. Putting an end to cloning techniques in Europe will only shift research elsewhere, for example to the United States or, in the worst case, to countries whose ethical standards are worse than those in the European Union. As a result, expertise, research activities and employment will drain away to overseas countries. Furthermore, the products will end up back on the market in the European Union anyway.What is this really about? Who are we to deny people the right to recovery? Would it not be too easy to ban promising technology with great potential on ethical grounds? Is not every person entitled to health and welfare? Who has the right to put the label of ethics on it? I can tell you that I, along with the, will be giving this resolution my wholehearted support.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I was among those who were present throughout Friday. It is easy to check up on, because electronic voting took place that day. In fact, there is no question of sabotage. Rather, it is a question of taking Parliament seriously enough to find it actually embarrassing that there are only 70 Members here when we vote on important matters such as school milk or Ethiopia.This has also given rise to quite a major debate in my own country, Sweden. We must get a serious discussion under way about these matters. Either we make Friday a proper working day or we do away with it.
Mr President, you never know what will happen in politics, but as things stand at the moment this could be the last time that Mrs Schreyer attends this debate as Commissioner for the Budget. I would like now to thank her for the openness she has shown toward Parliament over the years. As far as the role of rapporteur for the agencies that has been given to me is concerned, all I can tell you is that, based on the knowledge I have now, there is no reason to refuse to grant discharges to the agencies. That does not mean, of course, that there are no improvements to be made. We noted a number of matters last year with the agencies that will probably need more attention.In the first place there is the personnel policies they are pursuing. We would like to see greater transparency in general. How are people recruited and how do they get promotion? There are indications that this is done differently from how it is done in the Commission, whereas once these people become civil servants for an agency, they have the same rights and duties as civil servants working for the Commission. We think that this should be levelled up as far as possible. We also think that OLAF is fully entitled to get involved in the event of any problems with agencies. Finally, we think that the internal audit service of the Commission must pay more attention to what is going on in the agencies. Up to now this service has not had the time or has not had the inclination to get involved. We believe that it must do so in future.With some agencies that have their own incomes, there is a problem with the balances being carried over from one budget year to the next. Agencies can have their own incomes, but under the rules of the Financial Regulation, they may not use this income in the next budget year. A solution has been found for one agency, the agency in London. We think this solution should also apply to the other agencies. As a general rule, we also want to encourage agencies, where possible, to generate more income for themselves, so they cost the budget less.I really would also like to say something about the other agencies, but then in a personal capacity, in other words not as rapporteur. We are following Mr Bayona in his decision to grant a discharge to the Commission. I can more or less reiterate the comments of last year and of the years before that. It is still extremely unsatisfactory that there is no positive Statement of Assurance from the Court of Auditors. Every effort must be made to get this. We can only conclude that if we were to refuse to grant a discharge at this point in time, this would not serve any useful purpose at all, as the political consequences at the moment would not be in the interests of Europe.Now something about the Eurostat affair. There has been an explanation from the Commission this afternoon. As far as I am concerned, this explanation is not enough. This explanation from the Commission says nothing about the essence of the matter: political accountability. We heard from Mr Prodi, when he took up his position as President of the Commission, that there would be political accountability. We think that the Commission’s interpretation of this lacks substance. A Commissioner is responsible for the task assigned to him and should also render an account of that. If something goes wrong, he or she must take responsibility for that. We think it is a pity that three months ago, in response to the Kasaka follow-up report on the discharges for 2001, an amendment put forward by the Liberals was adopted with a majority of only one vote. In that amendment we said that it was regrettable that Commissioner Solbes had not taken political responsibility from day one. Clearly there is a different atmosphere in Parliament now, when we consider the many amendments that I now see to the Bayona report. All I am saying is that there was not as much opposition from the large groups in Parliament two or three months ago as there is now.With a view to the hearings before the new Commission at the end of the year, one of the important points we must emphasise must be what the Commissioners’ individual responsibilities are with respect to the implementation of the budget. After all, if we make every civil servant at the Commission responsible for his or her own area of work, then that should certainly also apply to the Commissioners.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, President of the Commission, first of all, I should share a saying with you. Pessimists are usually right, but progress is made thanks to optimists. I think this is the attitude we should adopt with regard to the forthcoming Council in Seville. There are a number of crucial points on the agenda for that summit. Topics on which clear and tangible progress must actually be made are the immigration issue, enlargement and the Council reforms. As enlargement will be debated this afternoon, I shall only make a brief reference to it now.In the past six months, a number of government leaders, including Prime Ministers Aznar and Blair, have come up with proposals on immigration. Remarkably, they have not done so before now. Where were they in the past three years following the agreements of Tampere? Indeed, since then, the Council has made little real progress following the highly verbose phraseology of space and freedom, security and justice. If the Council is so keen to keep this responsibility all to itself – after all, we as MEPs are only being heard out of politeness – it should also render account of its own role and responsibility. In fact, I should at this stage share with you an embarrassing example of the Council’s tardiness: the package of measures which this House adopted at the proposal of Mr Graham Watson around Christmas in order to find an effective European answer to the terrorist threats. The Ministers for Justice and Home Affairs have still not taken an effective decision on this matter.The immigration proposals, as these reach us via the media, very much smack of a cosy PR exercise between Great Britain and Spain. In all honesty, who expects a great deal of good to come from Her Majesty’s ship ‘Ark Royal’ sailing up and down the Mediterranean? Surely this will not be the ark that immigrants are waiting to board? No, we would be much better off looking into realistic, effective and, at the same time, forceful measures in order to achieve a common asylum and immigration policy. I would refer to the ideas of the Belgian Prime Minister, Mr Verhofstadt, on this matter. A number of his points have already been raised at Laeken, but unfortunately, they were apparently surplus to requirements at the time.We must set up a true common asylum and immigration policy. Crucial in this is, first of all, that immigration policy is linked to an integration policy and anti-discrimination policy. These are not self-contained issues. When a policy of this kind is set up, a great deal of attention should go to fundamental rights and freedoms. Central is therefore also parliamentary control and co-legislation. In addition, the Commission’s right of initiative and a majority decision-making process in the Council should not be absent; that much is obvious. In the policy itself, the focus should be on the fight against human trafficking and illegal immigration. The President of the Commission mentioned it a moment ago: plans are already drawn up for illegal immigration. What is needed, is implementation rather than clever new ideas. This can only be done properly if the external borders are closely monitored, whereby one common European border police force must be able to assist, where necessary. In the light of this, I should, in fact, share with you my serious concerns regarding control of the future eastern borders. As far as I am concerned, no compromises should be made in that respect.Mr President, you will have noticed that I do not always have a high opinion of the functioning of the Council. I am therefore delighted to see that various proposals will be submitted in Seville which relate to the Council’s reform. For the, it is of huge importance that the Council should, crucially, be democratic, open and subject to supervision. This is why I call for the Community method across the board and for Council meetings, in which the Council acts as co-legislator, to be open to the public. In fact, this openness should start with enlargement, so that everyone can see what the Council’s common position is on the matter. As things stand at the moment, we are receiving such unsatisfactory – and some would claim coloured – information from the Council and also from the Commission, in fact, that one would almost consider hiring independent experts in order to find out what the true state of affairs in the candidate countries is or how the negotiations are really going. You will really have to give us, along with the European citizen, better information, so that we can continue to trust in the role of the Commission and the Council.On a final note, I should like to say that I am not so fond of pessimists, but the saying is there for a reason. They are sometimes right. We could say, nothing will come of Seville, but we will not. I should like to say to the Spanish Presidency: show your bright, optimistic side. Do what you are good at: grab the bull by the horns and you will have us on your side. Pave the way for real progress, for that is what people want and what is desperately needed.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission’s proposal to create a framework enabling the proportion of electricity produced from renewable energy sources in the European Union to be considerably increased in the medium term, can only be welcomed. The lengths the rapporteur, Mrs Rothe, has gone to to make Parliament’s stance on this clear, therefore deserve our full recognition. After all, on the one hand, this directive is an important element in the series of measures taken to enable us to honour the commitment the EU entered into in Kyoto regarding the reduction of greenhouse gases and, on the other, it is a praiseworthy attempt to reduce the European Union’s dependence on the oil-producing countries. Under the present circumstances, it must be recognised that the renewable energy sources require some form of financial support, in order to create a level playing field. As I see it though, these subsidies should be no more than reasonable and only payable for a limited period. Needless to say, the controversial issue in this report is that to do with the stipulation of binding target figures. In fact the crux of the report is whether it makes any sense or not to have these binding target figures. I would advocate a realistic approach, an approach based on the knowledge that electricity production from renewable energy sources can never form a substantial element of total energy production. Stipulating realistic target figures can only increase public confidence in the energy policy to be pursued. If the target figures cannot be made binding then we will be creating false expectations, i.e. by pretending to strive for the improvement of the environment without being able to make it a reality. This would be to the detriment both of the environment and of the policy’s credibility in the eyes of the citizens.Finally, Mr President, I would like to point out, on the subject of municipal waste processing, that if a switch is made to separated municipal waste collection, a switch can also be made to separated municipal waste processing, and the latter must certainly be regarded as a renewable energy source.
Mr President, Commissioner, one of the EU’s key goals is to promote mobility within the labour market, and this can only be stimulated by high-quality education. It is therefore essential to develop tools not only to improve education, but also to ensure that education meets modern-day requirements.Quality assessment, self-assessment of schools in particular, is a key element in the development of quality education. This is why, all in all, I am delighted with the Commission’s recommendation that is now before us. However, I also have some comments with regard to the recommendation, and I included these in my report.In my opinion, it is especially important to encourage Member States to develop sound methods for assessment in education, bearing in mind that self-assessment is complementary to external evaluation. In addition, it is important for them to exchange good models and experiences and that all those involved in the school are actually involved in the self-assessment process, including parents and students. Moreover, it is important to stimulate cooperation between schools and various bodies, also at local and regional level. Good examples of this can be found in the trial projects and also, of course, at European level.What the Commission needs to do, therefore, is to draw up an inventory of sound existing methods, in order to set up a database which can be used interactively so that activities can be scheduled and regular reports submitted to Parliament by putting the item on the running agenda.I have drawn on many ideas from my fellow delegates, but also from many institutions in the sphere I mentioned above. It transpired in the process that the will to turn this project into a success is present on all sides, and the impetus created by the EU has certainly found fertile soil.It is therefore all the more unfortunate that repeated attempts on my part to reach agreement with the Council – because you know it was my intention to complete the report at first reading – were thwarted time and again and met with reactions that came too late and insufficient mandate. I would therefore call on the Council to come up with a proposal for a common position within the short term. We are nearly there, but I would first of all like to clarify the line adopted by our Parliament, so that we can coincide with the line taken by the Council.Finally, we reached general agreement in the committee on a large number of amendments. I thank you all for your very constructive attitude. I would now ask you for your support to deliver on these agreements.I would advise you not to pursue the amendments tabled by the. It is important to couple education with the labour market. This is borne out by the results reached in Lisbon. After all, we should not educate people for unemployment, and education needs to pre-empt this. This is why this should also be included in this report. The other amendments are already more or less reflected in the text or in other amendments.Finally, I would like to mention the financial dimension. I have not made any changes on purpose, not because I think the budget is generous but because I think that it will appear from the reports whether the budget is too tight. That will then be a good time to consider a possible increase in the funding. I thank you and look forward to your reactions.
Mr President, the traces of Suharto are very far from erased in Indonesia. Military influence may have been reduced but is still far too great. Corruption is still rampant. Ongoing violence on the Moluccas, in Aceh and in Irian Jaya is causing great suffering among the people. President Wahid and Vice-President Sukarnoputri have been unable to demonstrate a great deal of governmental power so far. It is very important for Europe to support the economic and democratic developments in Indonesia. But as Mrs Maij-Weggen has already said, this assistance comes at a price. It must benefit the poorest sections of the population. The violation of human rights must stop, the proceeds from corruption must be traced, and above all, wealth must be far better distributed. It is very difficult to hold this immense realm together. Fortunately, the time when a handful of Dutchmen were able to do so is now past. But poor administration, where the military are left to wreak havoc undisturbed, feeds the desire for independence. The origin of the conflict on the Moluccas mainly lies in Suharto’s ill-considered migration policy, which disturbed the population balance. The situation on these islands is still alarming. Only if an impartial army steps in will there be a chance of peace. The international community must bring maximum pressure to bear on Jakarta in order to put an end to the violence on the Moluccas. More humanitarian aid must be delivered. The same applies to ECHO, which, I might add, is doing a first-rate job out there.Irian Jaya is also suffering the effects of migration policy. Here too the local people are frustrated by the immigration of Muslims and the hard line taken by the military. It is of paramount importance that those guilty of human rights violations are not allowed to get away with it. I concur with those of my colleagues who are demanding an immediate judicial inquiry into the murder of Sander Thoenes.Mrs Maij-Weggen has written an outstanding report and I would therefore conclude that Europe must do all it can to support the country on its way to democracy, but at the end of the day, it is up to the Indonesians themselves to erase the traces of the Suharto regime.
Madam President, President of the Commission, this is a vital document for the future and fate of Europe.However, out of all the points, two specifically require our attention, and they are closely linked: peace and stability within Europe and outside Europe. It is a question of objectives that must be pursued as a priority. For some time, we have all agreed on this notion, but we must also clearly affirm that these objectives will not be achieved without enlargement, even if this comes at a price.Today, we have been called on to choose, for the forthcoming decades, between a Europe that might be less prosperous but a beacon of peace and civilisation for the whole planet and a Europe that might be more wealthy, but where there is uncertainty over what the future might bring.These goals will be more easily obtainable only if the Intergovernmental Conference, which will draw to a close within the year, results in constitutional reform, providing the Commission with real and adequate powers so that it will no longer merely implement Council decisions or Parliament’s codecisions but will have to perform the role of a real European government.The first supporter of this reform should be Parliament itself, if it really wants to increase its role of interpreting the will of the Europeans and acquire the centrality which is part of a genuinely democratic and firmly integrated Union.Moreover, it will only be possible to give the Commission responsibility for the tasks it takes on according to the actual powers it will be accorded.Without these prospects that we have outlined, Europe would, once again, have no future.
Mr President, we fortunately live at a time when oppressed people and ethnic minorities can have their rights acknowledged and when the deeds of bullies and tyrants can be exposed and condemned. Punishment is not always the crucial factor. What is crucial is to bring out the truth. Prosecutions must be brought because the truth must come out if people are not to be deceived again. Guatemala has ratified the Geneva Convention and the convention aimed at preventing and punishing genocide. The Truth Commission has asked that the authorities now take legal proceedings against those who have practised or supported genocide. The President has supported this, but we see both judges and others associated with the legal authorities being persecuted and killed, and it is regarding these matters that we too in this Parliament must keep the closest possible eye on the situation and keep up a maximum of pressure so that these processes are carried through with transparency and so that the truth emerges and the skeletons come out of the cupboard.
Mr President, first of all, congratulations to Michiel van Hulten for his first report. It was a baptism of fire but we have a saying in the Netherlands appropriate for this occasion: in at the deep end and you will swim in no time. Mr van Hulten, I think you deserve a medal for your efforts. There are two points which, in my opinion, deserve special attention on the part of the.Firstly, there is the Commissioners’ individual responsibility. This must be regulated during the IGC. However, we should not like this important issue to end up entirely in the hands of the Council and we have, therefore, submitted an amendment in which we ask whether an interinstitutional agreement could be reached between the Commission and Parliament in order to ensure that we have a kind of fall-back position and are not placing our fate completely in the hands of the Council.Secondly, as already mentioned by my colleague, Mr Mulder, the  is of the opinion that the European Parliament should also be investigated by independent experts. This will contribute hugely towards re-establishing the confidence of the European citizens in this institution. We at the European Parliament cannot be a credible counterpart to this reformed Commission as long as we do not search our hearts and put our own House in order as well. Only when all European institutions are reformed will we have the open, democratic and decisive Europe which our citizens now finally deserve.
Madam President, in the Foreign Affairs Committee this week we suffered a physical intrusion into our debates which stopped our debates three times. We now know that this intrusion happened at the invitation of certain members of this Parliament.Would Madam President apologise to our guests, the Turkish Foreign Minister Mr Cem and his Ambassador Mr Akiyol, and would Madam President remonstrate strongly with those Members who deliberately arranged the demonstration today as it was a travesty of our normal Parliamentary hospitality and could have led to physical harm.(Applause)
Madam President, there was a very high level of implementation of the European Parliament’s budget for the financial year 2000. The utilisation rate was 99.28%, and the ratio of payment appropriations to all commitments was 91.05%. The high degree of implementation was partly the result of the end-of-year mopping-up transfers, where funds were transferred to pay for Parliament’s buildings. In this way we were able to reduce the future costs of renting. In the future this sort of practice should be done away with and we should budget strictly for actual estimated expenditure.Parliament’s accounts are abstruse, however. For that reason, the report proposes that the way they are presented should be clarified and that, more specifically, there should be a clear breakdown of capital investment with regard to buildings.The main points of focus in the budget for 2000 were the promotion of activity based management and better allocation of human resources.Activity based budgeting and management has begun to improve, but, as the report states, the results are still modest. Power of decision and responsibility must be delegated further downwards, and each member of staff’s personal responsibilities must be clarified. We furthermore have to change to a form of administration in which it is the results of actions that are assessed and not so much the way the administration is organised. Only in this way can we make the administration more efficient and make savings.In this respect the recommendations of the Rome-PE report should be implemented and internal financial control improved. We must be able to redeploy human resources more flexibly and put an end to functions that are unnecessary. The current system is too rigid and set in its ways.This is also linked to the question of inequality between women and men. The European Parliament is still a very old-fashioned place to work in. In the last eighteen months eighteen people have been appointed to posts in categories A1 – A3. Of them, just one was a woman and seventeen were men. The report criticises this and calls for the introduction of quota arrangements until a normal state of affairs is reached.Political groups are also connected with the matter of administration. It is in accordance with the principles of activity based management that the groups’ internal autonomy should be developed. For that reason the report requests that this special feature should be taken into account in one way or another when the Financial Regulation is amended. The report insists that the groups should present their balance sheets and financial statements more clearly and that they should be published. Furthermore, there must be improvements made to asset management and inventories. In addition, the responsibility of the group as party to agreements in general and as employer in particular must be legally clarified so that the European Parliament is not always ultimately accountable.Regarding Parliament’s two places of assembly we state that just the variable costs of meetings alone at Strasbourg are 33% more than in Brussels. In addition there are considerably higher costs mainly due to the fact that there is double the number of buildings in Strasbourg. Shortening the length of a part-session produces savings of just 1%. This matter would perhaps be worth looking into by the Convention dealing with Treaty reform.The biggest single problem is the cost of the Louise Weiss building in Strasbourg. No agreement has been reached concerning the final investment costs with the project’s promoter, SERS. The dispute concerns the completion date and that is to be decided by the Court of Justice of the European Communities. In addition there are disputes over work, additional work and unnecessary work. There are also disputes between the promoter and the subcontractors. It may take as long as ten years to resolve the argument completely.Considering that Parliament did not want two meeting places, but agrees to meet in Strasbourg under great pressure from France in particular, we must insist that the dispute over the construction costs of the Parliament are resolved immediately. The city of Strasbourg and the Alsace Region have the controlling interest in SERS, owning 60% of the shares in all. They must therefore wield their power. Furthermore, France must take responsibility for seeing to it that the European Parliament does not need to be party to the disputes and can pay for its work premises immediately and acquire title accordingly. It is unfair that Parliament should continually have to remain vigilant to ensure that it is not being billed for costs that are unjustified.With these observations the report proposes granting discharge to the Secretary-General in respect of the implementation of the 2000 budget and to the Accounting Officer in respect of the accounts for 2000.– 2000 Discharge: General Budget – Sections IV, V, VI (+1996 to 1999 discharges), VII, VIII/Postponement of 2000 Discharge, Section II
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the employment problem is not only an issue for the national States, but also for Europe. Recognising this does not mean removing the Member States' competences, but asserting that with a broader and more cohesive view of the employment issue we can work with greater efficiency to address one of the most important matters of our time. We therefore need an institutional balance split between the Union’s objectives and guidelines and the Member States’ free choices. The Committee is a first step in this direction, but it is not enough.As regards the guidelines, I would like to talk specifically about the part which concerns the transition from school to work. This aim is not pursued only by the albeit commendable proposals contained in Guidelines 7 and 8. Certainly, it is good that schools are recognised as having a fundamental role in combating unemployment, but there is no reference to the need for schools to operate in the field of planning within Europe as a whole, encompassing the participation of social partners, local organisations and the business world. Therefore, the Commission needs to refer to this aspect and undertake to promote support programmes which will encourage this perspective.
Madam President, I should like to speak on behalf of my colleague, Miss Lynne, who sadly has injured her shoulder, having fallen down the stairs here while showing people how dangerous a particular set of stairs was!Miss Lynne would have asked that we be allowed to close the debate on the question of British beef with motions for a resolution from the various political groups. I would like to make that proposal that the political groups be invited to submit motions for a resolution to close the debate on British beef.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I, too, would like to start by sincerely thanking Mrs Sandbæk for her splendid effort, defending an important issue, that is women’s freedom over their own bodies,  being boss of your own belly as we say in the Netherlands  and for emphasising the importance of prevention and education. I would like to raise two points.My first point is of a financial nature. The main problem is that the financing is lagging behind the ICPD objectives, with, in addition to President Bush’s decrease, the fact that 0.7% ODA has not been reached. Taking all those things together, this means that many programmes cannot be implemented. That is why, Commissioner, the financial section in this proposal is immensely important. Now I would like to hear from you whether the Commissioner supports Amendment No 46, which deals with the level of the amount, but also the promise that the budgetary authority will consent. Even more important: does the Council agree with this proposal? We consider it very important that agreement is reached at first reading, and this amendment may put that in jeopardy.A second point concerns the anti-abortion actions being conducted in relation to this issue. There is a lobby group in America screaming blue murder because they say this European regulation promotes abortion. They say it supports the Chinese policy of forced abortion as a means of stemming population growth. It is all nonsense. I want to publicly reject this. Of course we are against the Chinese practice, just as we were against the forced sterilisation of men in India in the time of Mrs Gandhi. The decision to have an abortion must be taken freely by women but not seen as an alternative to proper methods of contraception. Once a woman has taken the difficult decision – and take it from me, it is a very difficult decision – the opportunity has to exist for her to do this in a responsible way, so that she does not have to resort to clandestine abortion, often with dire consequences. The proposal as it now lies before us is also entirely in keeping with the principles adopted in 1994 in Cairo. I eagerly await your response.
Mr President, I too should like to thank the Commissioner for the statement he has made. Whilst he, the past few years, has become well-versed in the field of epidemics and animal diseases, the big question is: What have we learnt from them? One of the Commission's most important conclusions with regard to the fight against FMD was that the external borders have to be protected. What has been done about this conclusion? When I enter, let us say, Amsterdam or Dublin, I can still see a major difference in comparison with, to take one example, the United States of America. In my view, control procedures have hardly changed over the past few years. I could be wrong, but I should like to hear from the Commissioner what specific measures have been taken. Why is it that I read in the paper that at Schiphol in Amsterdam, disinfectant mats have been put in place, while this is not being done anywhere else in Europe? Why is it that entirely different measures are being taken in Belgium? What official recommendations does the Commission give the Member States and how is this advice being acted upon?Imports from Thailand and other countries have been suspended. This weekend, there were rumours in the Dutch press that chicken meat from those countries would enter the European Union after all via a side entrance, namely via the new acceding countries. Is this true or not? Mrs Roth-Behrendt has already spoken about the need for further research, vaccines and testing methods, among other things. The point is that this Parliament has given the Commission the opportunity of using this extra money twice in the past two years. I am not talking about the resources in Category 3 for research, but extra resources in Category 1a of the agricultural budget. The Commission has chosen not to spend them. Why not, despite the fact that the self-same Commissioner has declared in this plenary that that would be the case? The Commission has failed to meet a request from the budgetary authority, and I should like to know why that is?Crisis management: the Commission has already stated that there is an emergency plan. I gather that there are indeed certain plans afoot, but what is the situation as regards human health? The flu medicine that could help the public is now available to a limited extent. Has the Commission consulted the Member States on how it will be used in the different countries if there are inadequate supplies of this medicine in certain other countries?Finally, a word about the OIE. Trade depends on trust and many aspects cannot be monitored by the Food and Veterinary Office in Dublin alone, which is dependent on the information that countries pass on to the OIE. It has now transpired that Indonesia, Vietnam and possibly China, have probably waited many months before informing the OIE. What does the Commission intend to do in this context in order to enhance the provision of information, and to ensure that trading can take place under fair conditions, with no risk of our suddenly being faced with illegal imports of products of this kind?
Mr President, given the time constraints and also the feeling in my group that the ECB has essentially been doing a good job in difficult circumstances, I would like to concentrate on some remaining structural issues concerning communications and accountability. As Mr Duisenberg will remember, Parliament has repeatedly adopted a transparency package advocating five separate measures to increase transparency. I am delighted to report that the ECB has so far agreed three of them, and we must give them credit for this. We have had no problems in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs in inviting members of the governing Council to appear before us. Last year, we had eleven such appearances.Secondly, the ECB began to publish regular forecasts or, as they prefer to call them, 'projections' in the December 2000 monthly bulletin, and that was a very welcome development. In addition, econometric models are now published in the working paper series. It would be nice if they were in more user-friendly form, for example, on CD-ROM, but there is progress.The two remaining measures that Parliament is again calling for are a publication of a 'Beige Book' setting out conditions in each Member State and publication of summary minutes giving the views for and against interest rate changes. In addition, this year we are asking the ECB Governing Council to deal with a specific problem it has faced in a couple of recent interest rate changes. There was confusion in the markets about what was perceived as an unpredictable decision and the marketplace was clearly not prepared for that decision. Indeed, some people went as far as to say it was arbitrary, so we are calling for the publication of votes on an anonymous basis.
Mr President, I, too, subscribe to the analysis of the fellow Members who spoke earlier. Two questions remain, as far as I am concerned. One is that we spoke about a technical analysis. Am I to conclude from this that that technical analysis will provide more insight into the origin of the products? Is it possible to say when that analysis will be finished? I should also like to reiterate the question as to why the Commission does not bring a Member State before the Court of Justice if it is clearly in breach. After all, it cannot be said that we do not have the necessary measures. There are always measures in place to declare Member States in breach.
Mr President, I remember that at a very early stage, even before the Action Programme was before us, we had a talk with the Commissioner, during which we made it clear that the sixth environment action programme should be a brief document, taking the form of a pamphlet, with clear priorities and objectives. I remember that the Commissioner shared our view. Unfortunately, on behalf of the, I have to say that we are disappointed with the ultimate outcome.It is a document which may provide an excellent analysis, but which is far too long and which does not contain any clear priorities and, in actual fact, which does not set out a clear policy, except for wanting to make the environment cleaner. Other than that, however, the document offers little in the way of transparency.That is, by the way, not a personal criticism of the Commissioner: we are very satisfied with her work in other areas. Despite this, the Commission saw an opportunity to produce something which we did not actually want. Allow me to move on to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy. We have a great deal of appreciation for the work which the rapporteur has done. In many ways, she re-wrote the document. Ultimately, however, the result of the work of the Environmental Committee is not really what we had hoped for either. It is increasingly resembling a hotchpotch: everyone has a say and makes proposals, which leaves us ultimately with a kind of wish list. I cannot shake off the impression that if someone had at some stage proposed to clean up the moon while we were at it, the Commission would have adopted that too. That is not the right way to go about things, of course. We may produce whole reams of fine words and give the impression that we are doing something worthwhile, but that is not strictly speaking the case.It is also perhaps questionable whether a ten-year programme is really what we need in this day and age. Too much chat, which, in fact, fits into the Dutch political culture perfectly: we too talk endlessly about all kinds of things – the infamous Dutch culture of consultation and deliberation, referred to as the ‘poldermodel’ being a case in point – but it subsequently takes an incredibly long time before something actually gets done. Perhaps we need an entirely different approach, for example by establishing very clear issue programmes in the short term, alongside regular legislative programmes, in respect of which the Commission is doing a sterling job.Allow me also to make a constructive comment and indicate which, in our view, should be the minimum priorities: climate change, energy, waste and bio-diversity. We should have placed the emphasis on these aspects, instead of producing a document which indicates how beautiful the world should become on all scores.We do not welcome many amendments because we then cannot see the wood for the trees. Strictly speaking, we are not against the proposed details in the legislation, but we are of the opinion that it is unnecessary to include those in the Action Programme now and to regulate those matters from Brussels and Strasbourg. It would be far preferable to implement this at national and perhaps even at regional or local level.Mr President, transparency and details are two different things in our view. We will therefore vote against a good number of amendments, not necessarily because we are opposed to them, but because we believe that those points should not be laid down by the European Parliament at this stage. We therefore offer our hesitant support to this process.Finally, I should like to propose the following: next time a document of this kind is drafted, we must ask the Commission officials to go back to using typewriters instead of word-processors. In that way, it might be easier to keep to the point, because then there would not be the constant temptation to copy sections from existing documents into the new document.
Mr President, the elected Vice-President of the island of Taiwan has been called “the dregs of the nation” by the government in Beijing. Extra troops have been sent to the Chinese province of Fujian, which lies across the water from Taiwan. This elected Vice-President, Annette L, said last week that although Taiwan and the mainland are very close to each other geographically, they had become distant relations over the course of history. China reacted furiously. Lü had shown her true colours as an extremist and incorrigible agitator for the independence of Taiwan. According to Beijing, with her poisonous words she wanted to stir up her Taiwanese comrades to hate their fellow countrymen in the mother country, i.e. Beijing.Lü said that these slanderous comments reminded her of the way in which the Kuomintang had treated her – during the long dictatorship of this party she was imprisoned for five years – and that she is only interested in improved relations with Beijing. That is indeed the case.We know Annette Lü and the new President of Taiwan Chen Shui-bian. Their election is the crowning glory of the democratisation process in Taiwan. Is that a threat to China? Yes, indeed, after all it is clear that the Chinese people are quite capable of building a democratic system with respect for human rights. The Taiwanese have shown that. For the old man in Beijing the internal developments in Taiwan must be a nightmare. Do they really think their threats will bring results?Beijing’s behaviour confirms our opinion that the future of Taiwan lies in the hands of the Taiwanese themselves. As Europeans we do not need to interfere. Our business is to ensure that this great and independent island is properly represented on the world stage, at the World Health Organisation, the World Trade Organisation, and such like. The idea that Beijing could represent the Taiwanese in such organisations is absolutely ridiculous.It is extremely important for this Parliament to forge closer links with the elected representatives in Taiwan. Democratisation in that part of the world is also important for Europe. China will only be able to be reunited if both Taiwan and the mainland adopt democracy, human rights and the rule of law as their guiding principles.
Mr President, here, too, I have an amendment to the adopted text. Amendment No 31 deletes Article 10. Article 1(3) of the common position makes reference to Article 10; that article must therefore be changed on account of Amendment No 31.
The situation in Sierra Leone continues to be extremely unstable. The peace agreement offered improved conditions to only a very small number of the RUF hierarchy. As the rains in Sierra Leone have come to an end, the campaign of violence and terror against the civilian population has resumed.To improve things we need to change the quality of government. It is a country which was highly educated and highly law-abiding. It is being ruined by international money laundering: diamonds are more easy to exchange internationally than money. But the poor respect both education and humanitarian values and they respect democracy. Soon there will be another general election. We should support that push for democracy. They have earned their chance to vote. I call upon the European Parliament and the European Commission to give funding for education, basic justice and democracy immediately.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Fisheries. – Mr President, as draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Fisheries, I would like to compliment Mr Koukiadis on his report and thank him for the consideration he has given to the conclusions of the Committee on Fisheries, for whom issues of safety are a high priority.Mr Koukiadis' report directly concerns only the first of what are now three directives on working time. He pinpoints variations in interpretation, types of derogation and manner of transposal as contributing to defects in its implementation. Such problems could be compounded by the fact that different rules apply to different sectors. For example, fish processors are covered by the first directive but those engaged in fishing as such by the second. It is difficult to predict the effects of this for two sectors that are so closely related to one another. Similarly, potential changes in the nature of aquaculture may mean that different rules are needed for the future from those that fit its character today. That is why we are asking the Commission to monitor these aspects of implementation in future reports. It may be that there are other sectors for which a similar approach would be helpful.It is desirable that individual sectors are covered by rules that are genuinely appropriate to their own particular situations. However, many implementation problems might be avoided and quicker adaptation made to technological and other change if such rules could come out of agreements between the social partners. We point to the agreement between the European Community Shipowners' Association and the Federation of Transport Workers in the EU as an example of best practice in this regard.Finally, with safety so much at stake, we hope that the rules will become accepted as setting minimum standards to improve upon, rather than maximum ones to adhere to simply because that is what the law demands.
Mr President, Mrs Ferreira had good things to say about solidarity and people’s demands that solidarity be shown with Third World countries. Unfortunately, that is not the development we are seeing in Denmark at the moment where we are cutting back on development aid in a way that I think is very unfortunate. Even though we have cut back, we shall of course still be among the largest providers of aid, but it is, at any event, totally the wrong signal that we in Denmark, and the Danish Government, are sending at the moment.I also fear that the Montreal Conference will just be another conference, with no practical consequences, and I should therefore like to highlight three practical issues in my speech here today. The first is the demand for development aid. I think it absolutely crucial that we set practical objectives for when the individual EU countries are to have reached a figure of 0.7%. As far as I remember, we have been hearing about this 0.7% since 1974, and the vast majority of countries are still a very long way from achieving that goal. That is why I am also looking forward to hearing what the Commission has elicited from its visit to the different countries in terms of establishing definite time frames. These are what are needed.The second thing I should like to urge is that Mr Lamy’s efforts to remove trade barriers – efforts which have so far been directed towards the least developed countries – should also apply to other countries for, without trade and without the opportunity to trade without customs barriers, no progress can of course be made. The third thing I should like to emphasise is that we must look at what we can do in the public sector with a view to promoting private investment, and I believe that, in this area, we can bring about more fruitful cooperation than we have done so far. In that way, it will also be possible to translate the World Economic Forum’s words into practical action.
Mr President, firstly I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Hatzidakis, for his excellent report. The rapporteur has gone into the matter with great care and raised some very important issues. Our Group supports him, for example, on the issue of coordinating regional and private funding in the Member States of the Union. However, I would like to underline a few issues. The annual report shows that shortcomings exist in the way money spent on the development of trans-European networks is monitored, and insufficient details are available as to the results achieved through the use of funds. We need more precise accounts of inter alia how the European Regional Development Fund, the Cohesion Fund, funds from financial sources not included in the Union budget and funds from the Member States are spent to improve trans-European transport networks. We also need a report on the effects of functional transport networks on a sustainable economy and employment.The rapporteur has quite rightly pointed out that, of the fourteen Essen specific projects, seven still require confirmation of their funding and timetables. In addition, the Essen projects have devoured a larger proportion of the Union’s funding for transport than was agreed. In the future, greater care should be taken in selecting such specific projects. At the same time, it must be ensured that the Member States will commit themselves to them, set aside a sufficiently large share of funding for them, and give them priority in their own plans. The Annual Report shows that more money is also needed for the development of transport and traffic safety through the Union budget, since transport communications are so vital for the economy, employment and, furthermore, for social cohesion.In the future we shall have to pay more attention to the coordination of various forms of transport. At the same time, we shall also have to give consideration to the link between regional policy and transport. Balanced regional development can help to slow down the trend towards centralisation and reduce traffic congestion. In addition to addressing the problems of traffic in congested areas, we will also have to ensure that the trans-European networks are extended and that they are also developed in areas where the volume of traffic is lighter – areas where there is less traffic, remote areas, and areas where the physical environment presents greater problems. Good communications are a vital necessity in these areas.
Mr President, my warmest congratulations on your election. Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this report has far more impact than would appear at first sight. Annually, thousands of contracts are awarded by public, often regional or local, governments. At the moment, public procurement is said to account for approximately 14% of the entire European GDP. However, existing legislation is too complicated and complex, as a result of which, to date, this market segment has been far too much hidden from the benefits of the internal market.The current report, therefore, cannot afford to miss its target, namely the simplification of legislation and greater opportunities for European procurement procedures. For these reasons, inter alia, I am opposed to raising the thresholds too high, as a result of which a meagre 8 to 12% of all procurements in the European Union would fall within the scope of this regulation. In addition, the introduction of social and environmental criteria must be handled with care. Too many conditions that are too wordy once again make matters much more difficult, both for our towns and municipalities and for our SMEs. We must realise that they will bear the brunt of this European legislation. We must bring them closer to Europe and get them to spread the European message. This is certainly not achieved by issuing an unhealthy number of rules and regulations.
Mr President, in my view this debate is taking place in an unreal atmosphere. We have in front of us a budget relating to the BSE crisis, but know that at this moment a far greater danger is haunting Europe: the danger that foot-and-mouth disease will spread on a large scale. This budget will, in any case, not be adequate to confront all these calamities. If we approve this budget, there will not be the slightest leeway left in the 2001 budget. Is that sensible? In the view of my group it is not. We believe extra leeway should be created for the months ahead. The only leeway that we have been able to find at the moment would be created if instead of a proportion of 70-30 for financing the disposal of livestock, a proportion of 50-50 were introduced. This would create the extra scope of approximately 300 million euro in the budget for dealing with other calamities in the future and maybe also for financing measures for combating foot-and-mouth disease.In the view of my group, the greatest threat looming at the moment is the renationalisation of agricultural policy. Every country will try in its own way to find funds to confront the outbreak of all those diseases. We must prevent every Member State pursuing its own independent policy: all policy must continue to issue from Brussels and that is why that extra leeway in the budget is necessary.I should like to ask the Commission what steps it has taken since the Haug resolution of last July on the guidelines for the budget: that resolution clearly asked for a consideration of alternative forms of finance in relation to outbreaks of disease. What has the Commission done on this point? Is it possible to insure ourselves in future against these kinds of calamities? Is a levy on meat required for an emergency fund? We would like answers to all such questions, because it is unacceptable that diseases should break out and we should have no resources to do anything about it.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, while the issue of the liberalisation of the postal services has been important, the reform of the COM in bananas is no less important.I would firstly like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Dary, for the content of his report, since he is defending for the second time the maintenance of the quota system for banana imports into the European Union, thereby protecting Community production, and he rejects the automatic transfer to a ‘tariff only’ system, after a period of validity for the reformed COM which we believe should also be of ten years.I would also like to thank the Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf, for his desire his reach a compromise solution with the Commission. I would also like to thank the chairmen of the political groups in this Parliament who have accepted the stubbornness and obstinacy of the Members from the outermost regions so that this proposal for reform of the banana sector may be debated today in this House, and the mandatory opinion may be issued and can thereby arrive in time for the meeting of the Council of Agriculture Ministers which will take place in the coming days and we can therefore enter 2001 with a new reform of the COM in bananas.I hope that this COM will reflect the aspirations of the World Trade Organisation after so many years of trade disputes, as well as those of the Community producers. I trust that, with the passing of time, the system of distribution known as the ‘regatta’ system, in other words, ‘first come, first served’, may be accepted by the banana-producing countries.I believe that the solution indicated by the rapporteur, which was approved unanimously in the Committee on Agriculture and which is now being considered in Parliament, is the least unsatisfactory solution for all the parties involved in this trade war, which began in 1993 and which now seems to be finding a degree of consensus amongst all the players, whether they be producers, sellers or consumers of one of the most emblematic agricultural products of European society, bananas, which, in the case of the Canary Islands, are unique.The important thing is to gain time in this final straight and I propose that we vote in favour of Mr Dary’s report.
Vladimir Putin is being received today with great ceremony by Gerhard Schröder. They will be talking about increasing economic cooperation between Russia and Germany. One hundred thousand people have died in Chechnya and Grozny has been razed to the ground. This is genocide.In addition, today, our Parliament is threatening trade sanctions against the State of Israel! While at the same time the European Union is negotiating agreements with Syria and Iran, which, as we all know, are champions of the democratic values we hold so dear! Stop this hypocrisy! Sanctions, threats, condemnation and formal demands for Israel but indulgence and a blind eye for the actions of the Palestinians.Where is the unequivocal condemnation of an education system which glorifies shahid [martyrdom] and teaches a whole generation hatred and murder? Where do we mention, where do we condemn the financial support provided by Iraq, in particular, to suicide bombers and their families? There is not even a fleeting reference to the hundreds of weapons discovered at President Arafat’s headquarters. We condemn the Israeli army for firing on an ambulance transporting a child, because they believed that the child was hiding a belt of explosives. Children being used by the Palestinian militia, children carrying guns – there is nothing new about that. I do not approve of the policy of the Sharon Government, I do not think that this military escalation will bring about peace. I call from the bottom of my heart for a return to the negotiating table.(Explanation of vote cut short pursuant to Rule 137(1) of the Rules of Procedure)
Mr President, the Lusaka Agreement is a positive step and, naturally, my group wholeheartedly supports this process which is moving towards peace.We will therefore be voting for this resolution because we feel that, from the outset, it provides a response to the Rwandan tragedy and to the need to confront concerns about Congo. Having said that, I would like to make two observations. Firstly, this agreement is fragile, and no one can guarantee today that we will not be confronted by a major obstacle – here, the several armed groups who are not aligned to any State, are not under anyone’s control, and these groups could, in fact, destabilise the peace process. We must be vigilant in this matter.Secondly, we feel that Europe must pursue this course of action, take responsibility for its past and uphold its duty to remember. Although the Commission has a role to play in this, I feel that the Council should also remain alert to it, because we think that in the future, we will be moving towards a partnership agreement between Europe and these countries. It might also be a good idea if, through the Council, countries such as the United Kingdom, France, Portugal and Belgium should face up to their past more productively than they have done to date.(Applause)
I would like to ask a follow-up question to question no. 48. The Commissioner made an interesting point. He intends to produce new proposals at the end of the year concerning flax cultivation in Europe. That being the case, I would like to ask if these will include proposals relating to other fibre plants cultivated in Europe, such as hemp and so on and so forth.
Madam President, yesterday, the European Parliament decided by democratic majority no longer to convene in Strasbourg on Fridays. You subsequently issued a press release in which you expressed your regret about this. You have, of course, every right to do so. Everyone has their own personal and political responsibility. It is, however, somewhat confusing if the President of the European Parliament expresses regret regarding one of Parliament’s democratic decisions and if she does so on Parliament’s official letter-headed paper, with a reference to the services of Parliament. I would ask you not to cause any confusion when you have to carry out your personal responsibilities vis-à-vis your electorate – which is something we all understand – and to do so on your own letter-headed paper.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs. – Mr President, I speak on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market specifically on the European judicial network proposal.Today in this House we held the annual debate on the European area of freedom, security and justice. Oddly, this theme of our citizens' access to justice in civil and commercial matters was not mentioned. This is very strange in an internal market where we actively encourage our citizens and enterprises to travel and conduct their commerce across borders. There is therefore a heavy responsibility on us to provide access to justice when things go wrong.This proposal states that its aim is to create a European judicial area which will bring tangible benefits to every citizen. I hope it will not disappoint. It is a proposal on two levels. First, a network of judicial authorities and personnel to ease cross-border procedures in civil and commercial matters. But it is the second level that interests me: to give information to our citizens on how to pursue cross-border litigation.This is difficult and not to be contemplated without competent and specialised legal advice. Our citizens are increasingly finding themselves involved in complex cross-border problems: road traffic accidents, buying property or a timeshare, actual problems that face our citizens. Whilst we move towards extrajudicial remedies, we must also ensure that judicial remedies are accessible. That is why my Group will support the amendment that was supported by the Legal Affairs Committee to secure a pilot programme of access to specialised legal advice. This should be central to this network – a network of judicial personnel is one thing, but a network that really provides cross-border access to justice would be the best way to recognise progress towards a real area of justice in Europe for our citizens, and this on the day of the annual debate on that subject.
Madam President, I would like firstly to congratulate Mr Lagendijk on his report on the development of the current stabilisation and association process and on the future challenges in the Balkans.I believe this is a full and exhaustive report which truly deals with the whole range of problems affecting this region. On behalf of my parliamentary group, the, I would like to stress the following points: we fully support the process of integration of these countries of the south east of Europe and we highlight the need to fulfil the political and economic criteria laid down by the Union.Furthermore, the history of these countries – and specifically what took place during the final decade of the last century – has been very important and this demands cooperation from all of them with the International Criminal Court for the Former Yugoslavia – as other speakers in this debate have stressed – and this should be demanded of all the States.I would like to point out, in this regard as well, that the signature of bilateral agreements with the United States clearly restricts the effectiveness of the International Criminal Court for the Former Yugoslavia, and is not in line with the European Union's approach. What should the European Union do in these cases? Clearly, it should not accept any process of integration. The signature of agreements is an arguable issue and it would be good if on the basis of the discussion which has just taken place the compromise solution could be reached which would indicate that the European Union is not prepared to accept any agreement unless certain conditions are met.Furthermore, I would like to point out our group has presented certain amendments, suggested by a Slovenian observer Member, on Kosovo, on the responsibility of the Albanian population in Kosovo, so that it can decide on its future by means of the free exercise of the right to self-determination. We have also presented another amendment on the issue of fishing in the Adriatic.I would like to point out finally, Madam President, that the report analyses the situation of all the States and, if in any case it appears excessively critical – as we have been told by the representative of Macedonia, for example – it should not be understood as a lack of support on the part of the European Union, but as a contribution to constructive dialogue aimed at improving the situation of these countries.
Madam President, first of all I should like to thank you very much because the aeroplane from Amsterdam to Strasbourg flew this morning and on time as well. I think that your intervention with regard to the French Government was fantastic. Thank you very much.But I am taking the floor about another matter. I put questions to the European Commission on 10 November about favouring public broadcasts regarding the auction of radio frequencies in the Netherlands. Three months have passed since then. I have still not had a reply to these questions. Now this is a very sensitive issue, so I understand that it is very difficult for Mr Monti to reply to it, but the auction is taking place this summer. I should very much like an answer to these questions either this week or next week. I have already informed the competent services of this but nothing has happened yet. Perhaps you could do something for me.
Madam President, my group understands all too well that this subject is of an extremely sensitive nature. The present resolution has indeed turned out to be rather elaborate and should focus on the rape of the women. I am very much of the opinion that this subject should be dealt with in the topical debate, for it was revealed only recently, last week, in fact, that women’s rights have been violated not only in Africa, but in 23 countries across the world. In this light, we cannot just dismiss this subject as marginal. What we as Parliament should say about this is not so much that it has happened – indeed, it happens in every society, irrespective of religion, both in the West and elsewhere – but that it is being concealed under the cloak of charity. For years, the existence of a problem was simply denied. I believe Parliament should make a statement on this.I repeat, once again, that the text which is before us contains elements which do not belong in this resolution; we will therefore remove them so that it becomes an accurate resolution which deals with the problem of the violation of women’s rights across the world by Catholic priests. I hope that I will be able to count on your support.(Parliament rejected the request)** *
Mr President, today the European Parliament is discussing two global questions: the liberalisation of world trade, and the realisation of an agreement on climate change, both of which issues are connected. They must both be seen as part of the greater whole.The current trend in all the Western societies of the European Union and throughout humanity is in irreconcilable conflict with the economics of nature. We speak of sustainable development with reference to the economics of nature, but the main drift of the action goes in the opposite direction. Despite the population policy, population growth continues at a considerable rate. Everywhere, including the most prosperous countries in the world, people are trying to raise their material standard of living, which is to say, they consume more.There are many who believe that the invisible hands at work in the markets and technological development will solve the problems of mankind. Market forces are a good servant, but a bad master. The new technology will help us to adapt our own economy to that of nature, but it also creates new problems and risks all the time. Both market forces and technological developments must be steered in a direction that will take sustainable development from the sphere of mere words to one of deeds.In the end, however, it will be a question of the values of life and policy. To check the advance of climate change and other changes to the environment that are harmful to human beings effectively, we need to be able to break the chain of materialism, with its supremacy of temporary values, which is harmful both to nature and humanity.
The reimbursement of Members’ travel expenses must be based on the expenses actually incurred and all Members must receive the same salary. Many of the things that Parliament is adopting with the Rothley report on the Statute for Members of the European Parliament, such as the late entry into force in 2009 and the subordination of future fellow Members from the accession countries, I do not like. I would also have liked to see the majority of this House show a greater readiness to compromise. It will now be very difficult to bring the governments and MEPs into line with one another.We in the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, however, are prepared to make compromises, because in the end statutory provision has to be made for these things. Moreover, it is the last chance before enlargement to regulate the Statute for Members and with it a better travel expenses scheme. All things considered I have therefore voted for the Rothley report because keeping things as they are is not acceptable.
As usual, we have no objections to Commissioner Patten’s answer. We would emphasise that boycotts are not the right way to proceed – especially since we know that, in actual practice, most cases in which children are exploited for slave labour take place in private homes and on smallholdings.I am also grateful for the support he is giving to UNICEF’s work. Dark clouds are nonetheless visible on UNICEF’s horizon because of the decision not to elect the United States to the Commission for Human Rights. Is the Commissioner able to reveal anything about the possibility of supporting UNICEF’s work in these areas? We also know that the issue of sanctions against certain other countries in this region, for example against Liberia, is highly topical. Can the Commissioner assure us that this will not mean reduced support for UNICEF and for work aimed at children? We must have intelligent sanctions. We must support education, in particular, together with the rights-based approach you talked about.
Thank you, Commissioner, for that honest answer. I believe it will enable us to continue this work together. I think it was obvious that small countries, which normally defend the Commission, did not defend the Commission’s position at the meetings in Vienna.I also think it is obvious that, in future discussions, we must take this into account when we look at the need to develop the discussion on European governance. I hope that, in those contexts in which we are to review the EU’s global role, the Commissioner will address the fact that this issue could be emphasised.I also hope that the Commission may, in any event, have informal contacts with those who represent the Member States in, for example, the management of the IMF. I believe they would view it as extremely valuable to be able to meet and go together through the IMF’s agenda in order to see the need for coordination if our interests are to be safeguarded in that organisation.I think the World Bank has other systems, but it is precisely the management of the IMF that ought to be able to meet and coordinate their efforts.
Mr President, Article 255 of the Treaty is now, therefore, to be implemented and, with the Cashman report, we are moving a long way in the right direction, but not far enough. All the same, I should very much like to commend the considerable work Mr Cashman has put into this report. As I see it, it is one of the most important pieces of work done this year. The statement by the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport, too, in fact goes farther than the Commission had proposed. We drew inspiration from the Nordic models for transparency in administration, for the Nordic countries have a very long tradition of having the right of access to documents. Naturally enough, it has also been the task of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport to emphasise that the language in the rules must be as clear, simple and understandable as possible. In the same way, we have also pointed out that openness and transparency are the best tools for solving the problems which may arise as a result of cultural and linguistic differences between the Member States, on this issue too.As I see it, right of access to documents is an important part of the EU’s information and communication policy. All investigations have, of course, revealed the distance between the European citizen and Brussels, and people themselves think they know too little about the EU. What they learn is at the media’s discretion or depends upon special interest groups, and they often feel powerless over and against the institutions. Now, they will be given the opportunity also to acquire some insight into circumstances which do not receive the special attention of the mass media and special interest groups and, in that way, they will be better able to participate in the open and democratic debate which is so important to confidence in the EU. I hope the Commission will make a big effort to inform people, including the man in the street, about this legislation, for the media and the special interest groups will no doubt find their own way to the documents they are interested in. I also hope that the Council and the Commission can give us a commitment today to continuing to deal with this issue in a positive way so that we might, as quickly as possible, start making the necessary changes to the business procedures in such a way as to benefit people and the image of the institutions. At a hearing in September in the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, we learned that it takes ten years for an administration to change mentality, so the sooner we get started the better.
Mr President, Commissioner Lamy, ladies and gentlemen, since 1979, fifteen Jews have been executed in Iran. The charge was espionage, but their real crime was being Jewish.Today, a new trial is starting in Shiraz, in the South. Thirteen Jews and eight Moslems have also been detained for a year in Iranian jails, facing death by hanging. The youngest is only sixteen years old.Back in September, Parliament resolutely called for respect for the fundamental rights of these prisoners in terms of a fair, just and public trial, with their own lawyers and with international observers present. When the more moderate elements won the last elections, we thought our call had been heard. But now there is this parody of a trial, a summary procedure behind closed doors before a revolutionary court presided over by a single judge, and a cleric at that. As for observers, so far Teheran has not granted any visas. In other words, we are disappointed, disappointed and alarmed. We are continuing to insist that the international community be able to follow the proceedings from start to finish.Furthermore, at the request of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, the European Parliament is urgently calling on the Council to send an official delegation to visit the prisoners. There is no such thing as an internal matter where human rights are involved. Our feelings are as strong as our concern. We must make ourselves perfectly clear. Iran’s possible return to the bosom of the international community has a price today. We hope the Council and the Commission will rally unequivocally to our position. We must remain intransigent on this point – human rights are not negotiable.
Mr President, violence in this conflict cannot offer a solution. A solution should be sought not by military means, but by way of politics and -diplomacy, but one of the key problems is that the leaders on both sides – and I mean on both sides – are in a weak position. Despite this, there still seems to be goodwill, as is evident, among other things, from the proposal to release a number prisoners from each side.The European Union should play a pioneering role, much more so than it has done to date. We are, after all, the region’s key trading partner. I would therefore argue in favour of working for peace from this House, this Parliament, even though it appears that Parliament is becoming increasingly divided into two camps. It is not up to us in the European Parliament to fan the flames through all kinds of unilateral actions. On the contrary, we must use our joint goodwill and energy much more to help establish reconciliation and lasting peace. That is the Parliament’s task.
Mr van den Bos, D'66) has declared that he has voted against joint resolution Nos B5-0165/2004  B5-0182/2004  B5-0183/2004, in which the Council is once again urged to reconsider the association agreement with Israel. Now that Prime Minister Sharon himself calls for withdrawal from the occupied territories and dismantling of settlements, the EU must support fresh policy in this direction. A boycott of Israel would further restrict the already minor impact of Europe on that country and seriously hamper communication. Additionally, Mr Van den Bos considers the text under No 40 unbalanced, because it does not condemn the terrorist attack on Ashdod, while the assassination of the Hamas leader has been condemned.- Lisi report (A5-0159/2004)
Mr President, Mr Antonione, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express my appreciation of and full support for the content of the report under discussion. We would obviously have preferred the text proposed by the Convention to be more advanced in terms of the process of integration but we realise that the compromise reached is the only one possible, and it is this that we need to admit by agreeing with President Giscard d'Estaing’s statement when, opening the work of the Convention, he said that our unity is the reason for our existence.I believe that a text that has such broad backing cannot easily be modified by the Intergovernmental Conference, except in some minor aspects. There is, however, only one issue, the most important issue, on which we need to put pressure on the Intergovernmental Conference, namely the rules for the revision of the Constitutional Treaty. If every single amendment to the Constitution is to depend on the unanimity of the 25 or 27 – or, in future, even more – Member States, then the risk is that this great step in the history of Europe will ultimately serve to constrain on Europe’s future and put an end to its hopes.
Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Bakopoulos for a very successful report. Increased safety is very important for maritime traffic. Our group supports the main ideas in the report. The proposed regulation and directive will make it easier to take account of international amendments to Community acts on maritime safety. The problem has always been one of delay, which is the result of the Community’s slowness in drafting legislation. The intention of the proposal is to remove the problems mentioned earlier. Procedures must indeed be simplified.Combining several committees that at present operate separately into one Committee on Safe Seas, responsible for matters of maritime safety, is the right way to help clarify how these matters should be dealt with. Sea safety standards are an attempt to meet certain minimum conditions, and one advantage of the pre-inspection procedure contained in the regulation is that it will clarify the question of applicable law and increase legal certainty. In future we must ensure that procedures followed in the Member States specifically to implement international agreements on maritime safety and Community legislation can be made simpler. However, we must safeguard the opportunities for Member States to act within the context of the International Maritime Organisation (IMO). In future too it must be a matter of principle that the IMO should be in charge of international maritime safety by concluding international agreements, passing resolutions and agreeing conventions.
Mr President, on a point of order. I welcome the fact that there is now going to be a smoking rather than a non-smoking zone. I hope now that all Members and all members of staff observe the no-smoking areas across the whole of the European Parliament building. I am still having problems being able to get into the part-session and being able to get in and out of committee meetings, both here and in Brussels. So I plead with everybody, now there is a smoking area, to use it and not the no-smoking areas, including the corridors and going up to the lift.
Mr President, Mr Katiforis’ passion and conviction have prevented him from carrying out the usual task of a rapporteur in plenary which is to defend his report. Instead he has defended his own position which was not the one approved in committee. We clearly have different views, one of which is that we believe the development of the European economy can be regarded with confidence. Yesterday, when speaking to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, Commissioner Solbes specifically indicated that the prospects for this year and next for the European economy are excellent. Moreover, several countries were mentioned whose problem is what to do with the public surplus. They are having to choose, for example, between reducing taxes or reducing the public deficit, but clearly avoiding any price rises, or – so there is no misunderstanding – creating a special reserve for future situations in which welfare may be needed, given the EU’s population growth.We are inclined to believe that a solid basis exists for this economic growth in the Union, now and in the coming years. It must be taken into account that we have an open, globalised and very competitive economy. In order to reach and even overtake the leading position of the United States of America, we must avoid interventionism, as proposed initially by Mr Katiforis, and also excessive intervention by the public authorities in the construction of certain infrastructures. Furthermore, the Member States refused to contribute more funds when we discussed Agenda 2000 which means that there will be little available over the next few years at Union level.However, we must stress the need to continue developing the construction of the European internal market which still has some serious flaws. There are still sectors such as air transport, energy and telecommunications in which, if we compare our unit cost with that of the USA or other countries which are equally competitive at international level, the cost supported by our companies is very high.This report contains information which shows that in order to create a new company the bureaucratic cost in the USA is EUR 500 and in the European Union, on average, it is EUR 1 600. We therefore still have too much bureaucracy and intervention. It is only by complying with the essential agreements established with the programmes following on from the stability pact and by developing a market with less obstacles at all levels that we will reach the levels of competitiveness required by the European Union.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism and also on behalf of the, I would like to point out that the consultation that has been made in the European Parliament on the individual application of Community provisions in various areas to the outermost regions of the European Union, such as the agricultural measures of the POSEI and the structural measures in agriculture and fisheries, fulfils the procedure laid down in the legal basis that is in Article 299, Paragraph 2 that was mentioned of the Treaty establishing the European Communities, modified in Amsterdam.Secondly, I would like to point out once again that the majority of the outermost regions, which include the group of islands from which I come, the Canary Islands, are islands and are remote from the Community area and from sources of supply to the international markets of essential products for consumption and processing.I would also like to say that, from a political point of view, these proposals, although they come late, come at an interesting time, due to the new context in which we find ourselves as part of globalisation, expansion and new agricultural agreements with third countries. They recognise positive aspects, such as regional diversity and the individual socio-economic and geographical characteristics of the outermost regions. They aim to fulfil the objective of economic and social cohesion, they are balanced for each and every one of the regions affected and implicitly recognise the rights of the citizens of the European Union within the financial neutrality recommended by the Commission.In some cases we have incorporated significant changes, such as the inclusion of Canarian tomatoes in the assistance under the agricultural POSEICAN programme, and the review of some products initially included in the SSA (Specific Supply Arrangements), and improvements in aid for the agricultural and livestock sectors of the French Overseas Departments, Madeira and the Azores. All these things are aimed at increasing the competitiveness of the outermost regions, their businesses and employment, and at respect for the environment and recognising the strategic nature of the agricultural sector. And most importantly, at European integration, so that from now on we will be able to talk about the remote dimension of the European Union.For these reasons we congratulate the rapporteurs on their work, in particular Mr Martínez Martínez for his receptiveness, and we ask the Members and all the parliamentary groups to support these reports. It will undoubtedly bring about a greater sense of European integration for the citizens concerned, and in our case, when we go back to the Islands we will be able to say ‘mission accomplished.’Finally, I must thank the authorities of the regional governments and of the Member States concerned: France, Spain and Portugal, as well as the Commission and the Swedish Presidency, for their interest in moving forward this package of regulations for the outermost regions, which are an example of solidarity between the peoples of the European Union. I would also like to say on a personal level that I will not vote on the regulations referred to in Mr Martínez Martínez’s report that affect the Canary Islands, as I have agricultural interests on the Islands.
Mr President, I have followed developments in Malaysia for a number of years through visits and acquaintances there. It is depressing to see how Prime Minister Mahatir is increasingly doing violence to quite elementary democratic principles and general decency in order to put down his political rivals. This Internal Security Act, or ISA, is used and abused for the purpose of getting at the Prime Minister’s political and personal enemies, as in a dictatorship. The same applies to the paragraph in the Malaysian constitution, the intention of which was to secure peace in the country and between the ethnic groups and which is now being used for the government’s own purposes. The former Prime Minister, Tunku Abdul Rahman, said as long as fourteen years ago that it looked as though Mr Mahatir was on the way towards authoritarian government. It can safely be said that he has since continued along the same path. That is deeply regrettable, and it is good that Parliament is today getting to debate the matter and that we are getting a strong statement from the government. Malaysia should know the truth when we meet with the Malaysians in the various fora during the coming weeks and months.
Mr President, beforehand there were rumours circulating that the high level working party was intending to propose an onion skin model for Europe, a sort of system of concentric circles. It is a pity that the report contains no ‘onions’, as institutional differentiation would seem to be the only realistic solution for a Union that is expanding fast.In the future Europe must comprise three institutional circles. The outer circle would be the European Council, whose intergovernmental institutions could be utilised better than they are at present by giving them new jobs to do. The second circle would be the European Union, which would develop as an association of states in the future. This would mean the decentralisation of decision making and would require intergovernmental cooperation to be strengthened. This sort of EU association could easily and rapidly expand. The inner circle would be the Federation of Europe, made up of an integrated group of EU states that had progressed the furthest: those that belong to NATO and the euro area. The EU would thus become an association of states, the core of which would be a federation.
Mr President, this is a straightforward case of illegal actions. Mr Tsiakourmas should be released and treated properly and his case should not be a weapon in a propaganda war between Greek and Turkish Cypriots, the latest manifestation of which is about which side has destroyed more of the other's culture.I am pleased to represent both communities as residents of London, and both deserve equal respect for themselves and their culture. I refuse to choose one side or the other. Our interest is in a united European Cyprus. The EU must get more engaged in the search for a political solution and it should press for mutual respect. We could perhaps give some funding to the preservation of both sides' cultural monuments. But in the meantime Mr Tsiakourmas must not be held hostage. Illegal action is illegal wherever it happens and this case must be solved without it becoming a weapon in a propaganda war.
Regarding the Attwooll report on shark finning (A5-0043/2003) I voted against Amendment No 13 which allows for shark fins and body parts to be landed separately. The procedure renders futile attempts to monitor the numbers of sharks being caught.That the Commission and the Council will determine the final shape of the regulation should be a consolation. But sadly this is not the case.The proposed regulation originated with a petition presented to Environment Commissioner Wallström by the Shark Trust, and with a question I tabled in the Environment Committee. I feel sure that Commissioner Wallström will feel let down by DG Fisheries. That an official from this DG's Conservation Unit can dismiss the concerns with the words ‘I must trust much more the opinion of our fishing industry if it is for them to obtain good returns from their landings’ suggests to me that he has a strange idea of conservation. Perhaps Commissioner Fischler should put him in charge of inspecting abattoirs.European citizens seeking to protect fish species from extinction can have no confidence in a Commission DG which seems to have sold its soul to serve the interests of the Spanish fishing industry.
Mr President, I too should like to thank the rapporteur for her brilliant report. In terms of equality policy, we have unfortunately begun far too late to focus upon money rather than upon mere words. When we do indeed focus upon money, we shall be able to attach some real figures to inequality. In this area, the EU’s Structural Funds are its handiest tools for redistributing resources, firstly between the regions and secondly between population groups. They must therefore be seen as key tools for achieving one of the Community's overarching goals: equality between men and women.As both Mrs Avilés Perea’s report and analyses by quite a few women’s organisations show, however, the gender dimension has not, as Commissioner Diamantopoulou pointed out, been anything like adequately incorporated. The fact that this has not happened is one issue. Another issue is that, when we address one of the major challenges for the EU – namely enlargement – we shall be faced with still greater challenges in the area of equality. We are now to have an array of new Member States with traditions and histories different from our own and, therefore, with views of the concept of equality different from that which we have in the existing Member States.The Communist regimes considered the oppression of women as something peculiar to capitalist societies, and sexual equality was therefore officially introduced. This meant that women were to go out to work and to take part in political life. In return, nurseries were set up, maternity leave was introduced and abortion was legalised in a number of countries. It worked in the sense that the proportion of women in the labour market was high in relation to what it was in the existing EU countries. The other side of the coin, however, was that, in many cases, women experienced their work as nothing more than a mere duty, and not as a right, and there was no question at all of equal wages and therefore, of course, no question of equality either.It can now be seen that, with the transition to a market economy, unemployment has hit women hard, and unemployment is something women will often associate with accession to the EU. The EU must therefore make an extra effort to convince women that the EU is something other than a crude market economy. It is in this area, moreover, that the Structural Funds have a central role to play, specifically through their representatives in the different countries knowing how to practise mainstreaming and how to involve women in projects, for otherwise there will be no projects beneficial to women, precisely because the latter are not in the first place well disposed towards the market economy and the EU and because they have the historical background I have already described. In this context, I hope that Commissioner Diamantopoulou will follow up on what she has already said along the lines of our being alert to this issue and that she will also intervene if it proves that there has been no proper mainstreaming. I am, moreover, completely convinced that all of us who are here this evening will happily help her.
Madam President, this proposal will probably succeed as a transitional measure to regularise what is at present a flawed system of financing our fledgling political parties. I agree, however, with some of the critics who say that the proposal in front of us will not provide a lasting statute for the development of campaigning political parties, which are an essential factor should our vibrant transnational European parliamentary democracy flourish.We are proposing one amendment that will improve the proposal, which is to grant the political parties legal personality under European Union law. To leave things as they are at present, with 15 competing national jurisdictions, will be a cause of confusion and future problems. We should sort this out now and address the other outstanding issues more seriously and more successfully once the Treaty of Nice comes into force. We also welcome the compromise amendment, which lowers the threshold for the registration of political parties from a third to a quarter, which is in the interest of both fairness and pluralism.
Mr President, firstly I would like to thank and congratulate the rapporteur for an excellent report and for the fact that most of the amendments put forward by the Committee on Budgets have been included in it.The European Development Fund came from the desire on the part of the Member States to help regions in Asia, the Caribbean and the Pacific develop. At present all EU Member States participate in the funding, although the way they do differs slightly from how they contribute proportionately to the European Union budget. The management of the European Development Fund is confusing. The agreement on the fund has to be ratified by all EU countries and two thirds of the recipient countries. This generally takes years. As a result there have been delays in its implementation and fluctuations in the degree of financing. The funds are managed by the Commission, but the authorities in the ACP countries implement the projects. One problem is the weak administrative capacities of the recipient countries. There is poor parliamentary control. The European Parliament grants discharge, but it is difficult to clarify administrative procedures and clear accounts. A consequence of this confused system of management is inefficiency.Because each development fund is meant to be used in its entirety, the result is that what is left over from previous funds is transferred to subsequent funds. At the same time there has been an increase in outstanding commitments, which now stand at EUR 11 billion. At the same time the same countries are being granted development aid out of EU budget funds, to the tune of approximately EUR 700 million in 2002, for example. These funds are managed in accordance with the EU’s Financial Regulation. They are made available during the budget procedure, the Commission is responsible for how they are used, and the financial statements come under scrutiny during the discharge procedure.It is important for EU development cooperation and in the interests of the ACP countries that the management of the European Development Fund can be simplified and made to work more efficiently. That is why the Commission’s initiative to integrate the EDF into the EU budget is right. That way administration would be simplified and made to work more efficiently, the funding procedure would be stabilised, and future financing via the EU would be harmonised as one whole process. For that reason, the Committee on Budgets supports the Commission proposal on this matter.
Mr President, I too would first like to thank the rapporteurs for producing successful reports. These reports focus on essential factors to improve maritime safety and there is still much to do in this sector. To minimise accidents the identification of vessels must be improved, the obligation to notify must be extended and procedures for transferring and using information must be simplified and attention must also be paid to differing circumstances.The grounds for compensation for damage must observe the principles of the international system on which the Commission’s proposal is also based. The circle of people entitled to compensation and the accidents for which compensation is payable must not be extended. However, those suffering from oil damage must receive full compensation for the loss caused by the damage. The European oil pollution compensation fund is not the only way of solving problems. Solutions should initially be sought at international level and the oil industry must also take part in financing the fund.The maritime safety agency to be set up must support Member States and the Commission in applying Community legislation. The field of operations drawn up for the agency is quite broad so good cooperation with Member States is important. The representation of various bodies on the board is not, however, essential as their points of view will be taken into account by other means. Besides tightening up the regulations, care must be taken that the decisions made are realistic and capable of being carried out. My group sees it as important that the proposals are approved quickly and we make progress on safety issues.I would finally like to draw attention to the fact that solutions to improve maritime safety carried out only within the Union are insufficient. For example, issues of responsibility must be addressed at global level.
Mr President, the new world order both requires a stronger United Nations and, at the same time, hinders its coming into being. More than ever, major world problems require a global approach, which entails effective decision-making and implementation.The UN should undergo a thorough overhaul in order to reflect the new relationships and to carry out the many tasks in an adequate manner. Everyone here is agreed on this, yet nothing is being done because everyone has a different opinion on how it should be. It is hypocritical to embrace the UN millennium declaration if we are subsequently not prepared to act on it and stick our necks out for it. UN reforms are not only technical, but often involve a redistribution of power, and that is where things are going continually wrong. For example, the reform of the Security Council has been the subject of squabbles for more than ten years, with no results so far.The United States is by far the most powerful player on the world stage and has little need of multilateralism, which it regards as a restriction of its power. Other countries, including France and the United Kingdom, refuse to relinquish the privileges they have inherited from the old world order. Potential permanent members do not grant each other favoured positions. Permanent seats for continents only work if the regional powers can agree on a rotation mechanism.The proposed double veto system is better than what we have at the moment, but offers no real solution, especially not if the number of permanent seats is being increased still further. Instead of this, it would be preferable to use a European model of differential vote weighting, and hence to abolish the veto system. I do not believe that the European Union's political coordination in the UN is as bad as Mr Laschet suggests in his excellent report. Generally, there is most definitely EU consensus in the General Assembly. Despite this, Europe appears hopelessly divided in major crises, such as over Iraq. In my opinion, this is mainly attributable to the increased rivalry between France, the United Kingdom and Germany. A legal entity, or even an EU minister, will be unable to create common foreign policy as long as the big European states continue to fight for EU leadership.The Laschet report contains many interesting recommendations for building up relations between the European Union and the UN. Some are very valuable, but there are perhaps too many for the short term. We have to be careful not to create another UN-EU bureaucracy. In my opinion, the main role of our Parliament is in the area of monitoring and not so much in the diplomatic arena.The enlarged European Union can, and must, make a substantial contribution to the desperately needed reforms of the United Nations. Political necessity is beyond dispute; what is still lacking is the political courage to give shape to the new world order within the UN in a decisive manner.
The Burmese generals continue to wage war against their own population. They take no notice of the rest of the world. The military regime is still breaking all records when it comes to violation of human rights, political prisoners, forced labour, child soldiers, media censorship, violation of religious freedoms and violence against minorities. Everything that God has forbidden goes on in Burma. In drawing up a new common position, the European Union must speak with a clear voice. The time is long overdue for the generals to release unconditionally the 1 200 political prisoners who are being held in atrocious conditions and tortured. The Council and the Commission must also give very serious consideration to the systematic rape of women and sexual enslavement and argue for an international investigation into this. The ILO must be given access to all areas where forced labour is going on. The European Commission must denounce these abuses at the WTO. The European Union must also demand that the regime put an end to the climate of impunity, that applies to all those who are guilty of torture, forced labour, deportations or unlawful executions.Finally, Mr President, it is of the utmost importance that the Burmese refugees in Bangladesh are not forcefully repatriated. While it may be true that the freedom of movement of the D of Aung San Suu Kyi has been slightly increased, that seems to be more a question of window dressing than of a significant change in policy. The European Union must strengthen the sanctions against Burma. A ban on foreign investments should be introduced. European companies which get Burmese blood on their hands to serve their shareholders must be pilloried. Unfortunately there are still Member States that give more weight to their own business interests than they do to a consistent human rights policy. Only with broad international support do the oppressed Burmese people have a chance of ousting the generals.
Mr President, the problem here is that Member States fail to enforce the rules in far too many instances. Therefore, there are horrific cases of animal cruelty and far too many cases of animals – living creatures – simply being treated like so many nuts and bolts on a manufacturing production line. The Commission does not have a police force, and I recognise the attempts being made by the Commissioner to try and introduce a system that is more capable of being enforced.However, that is no way near enough. Inevitably horrific practices will continue to occur. We will find many instances of dead animals being left amongst live animals on journeys taking many days. It is now some 150 years since refrigeration was introduced, which allowed beef from Argentina to be imported into Europe. It is simply incredible that all this time later we are still transporting live animals huge distances within our continent. The time is going to come when we will impose a ban on this, when carcasses only will be permitted. Refrigeration permits this. We should introduce a ban on the transport of live animals at the earliest possible moment.
Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to thank Mr Langen for his excellent work in this important matter. The conclusion reached regarding conciliation with regard to the Altener programme as put forward by the Conciliation Committee is, after all the difficult phases it has been through, at least satisfactory. Most of Parliament’s amendments have been taken into account and the fact that the programme has seen its total funding rise to EUR 77 million must be seen as positive. The Union has ambitious goals with regard to increasing the use of renewable energy. There is very little in the way of appropriations to meet these targets, however. The appropriations are needed for pilot projects, research, information exchange and also to cultivate more positive attitudes towards the use of renewable energy.The main responsibility for increasing the use of renewables is to be borne by the Member States. This programme will hopefully encourage Member States to act with greater determination to increase the use of renewable energy. However, in the future, the Union will also have to increase its own input in promoting the use of renewable energy and ensuring that renewable energy is launched without obstacles on the market. Promoting the use of renewables is especially important for the environment. The Union cannot achieve its environmental goals unless the use of renewables is actively stepped up. Renewable energy sources lower dependency on imported energy and their increased use boosts competitiveness. Europe will also be able to achieve a leading position in the industry that supplies equipment needed for the exploitation of renewable energy. We should also remember that the use of renewable energy sources has a positive impact on regional development and employment.May I also venture to raise the matter of peat? Peat is not mentioned in the list of renewable energy sources. However, it is important, at least in Finland, as a sustainably used, slowly renewable energy source. I hope that in the future it can be included in the list of renewables.
Since time immemorial, people have been involved in theatre in one form or other, and each nationality has developed it own preferences and forms of expression. I would therefore like to thank Mrs Fraisse for her initiative to map out the state of affairs with regard to performing arts in the EU and the candidate countries. Given the wide area and the many variations in the different countries, it is a valiant and successful effort. Nevertheless, I should like to make a few observations.Firstly, theatre exists by the grace of its producers, directors and actors, and I should like to add the theatre-going public to this list, for without an audience, there is no theatre. Many theatres and theatre forms have followers who unite in one way or another in ‘friends of …’, and I believe that they too deserve a mention when the topic of supporting the dramatic arts is mooted. They offer incentives, information and bring theatre to the attention of a wide public. This aspect is, sadly, missing from the report.Secondly, I should also like to expressly draw your attention to the role of information technologies in modern theatre. Modern theatre productions increasingly incorporate modern technology in their performances. This trend deserves our attention and must certainly be included in fresh theatre policy, for it indeed pertains to a typically European task in the field of innovation.Thirdly, my group has major objections to the appeal for more financial support. We believe that enough attention is being given to this aspect by ‘Culture 2000’, the structural funds and the Socrates and Leonardo programmes, upon which the Commissioner, in fact, enlarged. Finally, more tax allowances for the mobility of those who are culturally active is a taboo subject in my group. We agree that double taxation is naturally exaggerated, but the award of special tax allowances would be a reason for us to abstain from Mrs Fraisse's entire report during the final vote.
Madam President, the Commissioner finished his speech by saying that not that many consequences can be drawn from this case. I agree, which precisely raises the question: 'Why bother?' I accept that, as a Commission, you have the right to do what you did. As Guardian of the Treaty, you have the duty to act, if you believe that is correct. I accept that Ecofin endorsed the judgment of the Commission. The Irish Government too has a right and duty to defend its policy preferences, where it feels it is right to do so.I do not question your right, Commissioner, to do what you did, but I question your judgment. I believe it was the wrong judgment in the context of such an important precedent-setting example. I believe the Irish response was the wrong response because it was too petulant. I believe both the Commission and the Irish response to the Commission's recommendation lacked proportionality. Two wrongs do not make a right.In the grey economic space, the budget was inflationary, but, on the supply side, the tax change will bring greater participation in a stretched labour force. The tax change will lower wage expectations and therefore inflationary expectations. The capital expenditure will get rid of infrastructural bottlenecks; the case is at best a grey case.
Thank you, Mr President. Commissioner, access to port services must be as open as possible, and a port must be able to operate as well as possible. This directive is one contribution, but we also need guidelines for government aid and a directive on transparent financial relationships between the port sector and the government. We are also rightly making rules that create a framework for the free circulation of services and we are rightly including specific aspects of ports. The trade unions are also right to point out to us the risks of ports of convenience, ports where all the social rules go overboard, just as there are flags of convenience, cheap flags, for ships.That is why we must impose requirements – social requirements too – on anyone wanting to offer services in a port. That is also why we propose introducing compulsory licensing for the provision of services in ports. That will enable aspects such as safety and the environment to be taken into account, as well as social rules and employment. The Prestige accident, an accident that once more focused our attention on the training and quality of ships’ crews, which we are also talking about here, had fortunately not yet happened at the time of the first reading. Since then we have also had a proposal from the International Maritime Organisation about safety on ships and in ports – in fact you are currently working on legislation on that. We must therefore know who is working in our ports and under what conditions. With a good licensing policy the competent authorities should be able to ensure that a port is not a place where you take risks with safety or with the environment, that a port is certainly not a place where you allow social dumping, but that a port is in fact a vital link in an efficient and sustainable European transport policy. That is something we urgently need.
Mr President, even though the rapporteur has stated modestly that the report could have been better, I would still like to offer her my compliments.As has already been mentioned, the instrument of discharge is one of the most important weapons that Parliament has. It is therefore absolutely vital that we treat it with care. The Court of Auditors supplies reports and one of the most important recipients of these reports is Parliament. I therefore feel that Parliament would be well-advised to let the Court of Auditors know exactly what it expects from these reports. Also, a number of people have already said that we want concrete, succinct reports so that we know where we stand, and reports which are easy to read. We must name countries, specific cases and institutions; all these things would make it easier to understand. My group also thinks it is extremely important for there not just to be an SOA for the entire budget, but also one per sector. In the final analysis, we must be able to assess whether it is getting better or worse. I also think the idea mentioned in the report that members of the Court of Auditors should appear in the specialised committees of this Parliament, is an excellent one, because we cannot follow everything ourselves, instead, we must combine forces.As far as Parliament itself is concerned, the problem is the Treaty. The Treaty states that we can grant discharge but it does not say that we are entitled to refuse to grant discharge. I feel Parliament must sort this out. We must be able to do it ourselves, but I feel that refusal to grant discharge is an extremely important political matter. Indeed that is why it says in the report that if it should come to that, Parliament must immediately hold a debate on the political consequences thereof. Amendment No 8, tabled by the, states that it is important for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to further elaborate the recommendations of the Morgan report so that they can be used.
Mr President, Commissioner, the recent release of Jean Bosco Barayagwiza by the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda has scandalised the government and population in Rwanda. Their anger is perfectly legitimate: the defendant was released on a technicality despite the extremely serious charges against him, charges of genocide. Going beyond this particular episode which the Rwandans see as traumatic, what is involved here is the culture of impunity.It must be clearly established that all those who committed crimes as heinous as genocide or crimes against humanity, or who were accomplices to these, will be pursued tirelessly. In order to do so, international institutions, and that includes ourselves, must provide the international courts with sufficient resources to accomplish its task.Would the European Union be prepared, Mr Lamy, to play a role in this regard, in order to, in future, prevent this type of blunder which is catastrophic in the opinion of the populations who are waiting for truth and justice?Finally, being particularly attentive, of course, to the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda, so that the duty to remember this conflict which already seems far off, some people think too far off, is maintained, it is the role of the European Union, I feel, to stand by the people of Rwanda on this occasion. A people that has today been truly betrayed by the release of Jean Bosco Barayagwiza, who was, need one be reminded, the founder of hate radio, the notorious Radio-Télévision Libre des Mille Collines (RTLM). The reaction of the Kigali authorities is understandable, but I invite them to resume their cooperation with the ICTR which is still, in spite of everything, the best instrument to establish justice and, hence, peace.It is essential for the international justice system to regain control if it wishes to ensure its own credibility, but we must also give it the resources it needs to fulfil its ambitions. This is the price of what we owe to the memory of the Rwandans.
Mr President, there is a mistake in the Swedish text. It reads, “increased access for the Mediterranean countries”, when it should read ‘developing countries’. I hope that other language versions are correct.
Mr President, on a point of order. I welcome the recent acquittal of the British and Dutch plane-spotters on spying charges in Greece and the fact that the appeal court had the integrity to put right the original miscarriage of justice that the conviction represented a year ago.I recall that it took many years to right similar wrongs in cases in the United Kingdom in the 1980s, so I am pleased that, although a year is an ordeal for the defendants, it was no longer. But the fact is this prosecution should never have happened and the way it developed raised a lot of concerns about the treatment of defendants and trial standards. It is therefore essential that we progress the agenda for ensuring high minimum procedural standards of justice for persons accused in criminal proceedings which the Commission will be putting forward in a proposed framework decision next year. We also need to put flesh on the bones of our human rights commitments in the European Convention on Human Rights and the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
By agreement with Europe, Austria and Switzerland have laid down limits for heavy goods vehicles, and new railways, currently being built or designed, are planned. This is part of the trans-European transport network, which proposes the Turin-Lyon rail link as an alternative to road travel. The Commission recommended the route for the Aosta-Martigny tunnel, which was restored by the authorities in the Val d’Aosta, in accordance with the Protocol on the Implementation of the Alpine Convention in the field of Transport signed by the States and soon to be signed by the Commission.The Mont Blanc and Fréjus tunnels will now serve as a test to see whether the intention is genuine: the former was closed to traffic following the tragedy whereas the latter has seen a great increase in the transiting of heavy goods vehicles. The communities of the valleys leading to the tunnels voiced their anxiety and concern: in the Chamonix valley there was a request for a ban on heavy goods vehicles and in the Val d’Aosta a request was made for a quota system.There are no limits on heavy goods traffic in the western Alps. Italy and France are going to establish such limits – I recall a draft law I submitted to the Chamber of Deputies – together with the local communities, and communicate them to Europe so that Europe can modify the trans-European transport network and specify the changes in the Commission’s White Paper, which will also cover vehicle transit through the Alps.Measures must be laid down to govern road tunnels between Italy and France, in order to achieve a uniform system throughout the Alps now that the Mont Blanc tunnel is being reopened.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, I share the opinion of Messrs Rocard and Cappato and other fellow Members who think that software as such should not be patentable. Article 52 of the European Patent Convention excludes software as such and states that ideas and theories are not suitable for patents. It must be about technical innovation, and that is precisely the heart of the problem we are all facing. It is also the heart of the directive. The Patent Office recently concluded that all programs that run on a computer are technical by definition. Under the Patent Office’s current practices, it has already awarded more than 30 000 patents, many of which are not actually legally valid. Mr Rocard has rightly mentioned that there is a difference between an invention based on the forces of nature and a product of the human intellect. I am of the opinion that we must therefore support some of the amendments, which have also been submitted to the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy and also the amendments submitted to the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport in the past. These tighten the definition in such a way that, in my view, software as such is excluded. If these amendments are not accepted, I will vote against the directive.There is a good deal of disquiet among small- and medium-sized enterprises and the open source movement. Human knowledge and the dissemination thereof is an important freedom which we in Europe must preserve. This must be done if only on account of human dignity, but not solely for that reason. We will be even more competitive than the United States and the directive will have to rule out the US situation completely. I therefore hope that many of you will vote in accordance with this line so that we will get a directive that is workable.
I warmly welcome the fact that the Portuguese Presidency is making justice and home affairs one of its top priorities or jewels in the crown. I was also encouraged by Commissioner Patten’s comments this morning about a rapid reaction fund for security crises. Perhaps that will end scandals like the failure of states to deploy in Kosovo the police they promised.I just want to highlight three areas among many where we need quick progress. The first is asylum. It is essential to establish a single European system, but one based on fairness, full respect for the Geneva Convention and decent reception conditions, including an end to routine detention. Decisions on asylum should take months – not years.The second area is that of freedom: freedom to move and reside wherever one wishes in the Union; freedom of information; freedom to vote for all who have European citizenship – and that includes not just Member State citizens but third country nationals. Let our citizens know that our common policies in justice and home affairs are about freedom, not just about repression.The last area I want to mention is convergence of civil and criminal justice systems. Eurosceptics claim that this is a threat to sovereignty, the end of the nation-state, and so on. But the case of the suspect wanted for questioning in connection with the murders of three women in France, including British student, Isabel Peake, who was thrown off a train, shows why we need mutual recognition. Arrested and released in Madrid, he is now being extradited after arrest in Lisbon. Whatever the Eurosceptics say, it is in all our interests to get cooperation in such matters.Finally, as has already been said, it is essential, and I hope that the IGC will cover this, to move to codecision with the European Parliament in these areas, with democratic and judicial scrutiny.
Should the oral amendment not be taken after the vote on the amendment, because they are amending the paragraph, rather than the amendment I tabled?
Mr President, the idea that the Union’s competences should be fewer, much fewer in number than they are today but greater, much greater than they are today is one I support. This is a basic premise of the Lamassoure report which I endorse.It is certainly a mature decision to extend the Union’s competences to the common foreign and defence policy – only thus will Europe be able to make its voice heard in matters of preserving order, peace, stability and world development – and to the management of the common area of freedom and security, because only thus will we be able to combat organised crime and drugs effectively and address the issue of extra-Community immigration in a civilised manner.The Eurobarometer readings would indicate that combating poverty and exclusion should also have a place among the Union’s core competences. That said, in accepting and underlining the importance of the principle of subsidiarity and transferring all the other competences to federal sovereign bodies in accordance with this principle, it is true that, realistically, we need to acknowledge that, in the present phase of European history which is undeniably distinguished by the enlargement procedure, the Union we are building is a Union of States. That does not change the fact that the Member States themselves grew up and were defined merely in response to a need for integration in times past. They are structures dating from before the present age of globalisation. It is a fact that, in recent decades, the States have had to relinquish sovereignty upwards – as is the case with the Union itself – and, especially, downwards, towards the territorial, regional and local bodies which now represent the real identity and seat of democratic control in many parts of Europe.From this point of view, like many of the previous speakers, I believe that we need to acknowledge that we cannot just define the principle of subsidiarity in terms of its application to the Union/Member States relationship but that we need to go further and apply it to that relationship which we have undertaken to create as a further contribution to the Convention’s work.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council and Commissioner, I believe that we should sometimes stop and pinch ourselves and reflect upon how privileged those of us are who are permitted to work on European issues right now. To unify Europe and finally incorporate the countries of central Eastern Europe into the European Union is the historic challenge of our time.Sometimes, I see this as unreal because, for a very long time, I had got used to there being a dividing line running right through Europe, which would remain in place. Fortunately, it did not do so. Now, however, I feel that unification is taking an unduly long time, with many years already having passed since the dividing line disappeared. As Mr Brok said, there is no longer any excuse for delaying enlargement.To provide their people with safe and nutritious food has always been an important ambition for all states. That is why agricultural and food policies play such a large role, both in areas of the world with surpluses and in those with shortages.Agricultural policy is a knotty problem in the accession negotiations. The EU cannot reasonably meet all the wishes of the candidate countries. In the negotiations, we must, however, create a feeling of understanding and community within the framework of the EU’s long-term economic and political commitments.The Council (General Affairs) was unable to achieve agreement on the issue of direct payments. I wish to take this opportunity to state clearly that I do not support the Swedish Government’s view, but am in favour of the Commission’s policy when it comes to the phasing-in of direct payments.One Paragraph of our report proposes that the Commission should provide help and support on the issue of Romania’s and Bulgaria’s continued work with a view to accession. I would therefore thank the Commissioner for having already begun by explaining that this should be done. It is very pleasing when we are agreed in our endeavours.We are also addressing a number of points which may perhaps make the negotiations a little smoother. It is possible that the Commission has already come up with these ideas. Regarding the establishment of quotas and volumes, we believe that, within the framework of the quotas and volumes proposed by the Commission, account should be taken of the candidate countries’ situation during the reference period, their production potential and their consumption trends.We also believe that those countries which, for various reasons, have exposed their agriculture to a tough market in recent years should not be treated unfairly. In countries with low direct payments prior to accession, it should moreover be possible to provide the option of exceeding that level. I do not say that that should apply generally, because it is sensible not to allow any increase over and above previous levels. There should nonetheless be an opportunity and scope for discussion about the option of exceeding that level in those cases in which the economy permits this and in which competitiveness will not be harmed.Given that the candidate countries are undergoing major readjustments, it would also be appropriate after a little while to review how the common agricultural policy is to be applied.The President-in-Office of the Council is right in saying that enlargement is one thing and agricultural policy another. There are, however, connections, and we believe it is a matter of urgency for both EU and candidate countries directly to begin to discuss how a future agricultural policy might look. We are all aware that it must be changed, and such discussions would perhaps facilitate acceptance by the candidate countries.I believe that the EU, in accordance with the discussions now being conducted at the World Food Conference and in accordance with the WTO’s ambitions, has a crucial interest in being able to sell its food on a functioning world market. Hopefully, it will then be possible to exploit its production potential.I want to make a recommendation to the Council and the Commission: negotiate with knowledge, sensitivity and love, and we shall achieve a good result.IN THE CHAIR: MRS LALUMIÈREVice-President
Firstly, I would like to say that our Group, as it did in committee, supports the Karas report. We believe that it is a very good report and it makes a very positive contribution to an issue of fundamental importance in the process of introducing the euro into the lives of our citizens.It is clear that the euro is not purely a macroeconomic and financial issue. It is an issue which will reach every European citizen, it is a European distinguishing mark and, therefore, it is of the greatest importance in the process of European construction. To this end, it is very important that a campaign be implemented – and a very good campaign – so that in 2002 the euro may enjoy the degree of confidence and acceptance which we all want. Furthermore, as has been said, there is a great delay in terms of the number of countries and companies prepared for its use and in terms of our citizens’ level of knowledge.In this respect I would like very briefly to highlight three dimensions. The first is decentralisation. The participation of regional and local authorities is very important. Many of them have very significant responsibilities and are better prepared than the Member States themselves to reach the citizen. This is an aspect that the European Central Bank and the Commission should bear in mind. I would like to know Commissioner Solbes’ opinion with regard to participation at this level, which Mr von Wogau has also requested. We must ensure that these administrations play a significant role. It falls to them to do so, since they are best prepared to reach the citizens.Secondly, this decentralisation must also take place at company and industry level and not be limited to the headquarters of managerial or union organisations.Thirdly, I recommend that you read the conclusions of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport, which introduce a cultural dimension, which is very important to the success of this information campaign.
Mr President, I too should like to congratulate both rapporteurs. I wish them every success. I concur with the Commission in terms of the priorities. I share the views of others and particularly those of Mr Wynn, who said a moment ago that categories 4 and 5 will cause the greatest difficulties. As far as I am concerned, category 4 should not contain any holy cows. It must be possible to use money that has been budgeted, and we should not end up in a situation whereby we receive various claims in the course of the year on unused funding that was budgeted for a specific purpose for which it may not be used. I would therefore urge the Commission to assess the needs very carefully. The same applies to category 5. From the most recent trialogue meeting, I understand that there is a shortage of only 48 million. Given the total, this is a very small amount. I have seen a draft letter in this respect. The Commission should check with all institutions whether it is still possible to find an amount of around 48 million that can be saved elsewhere. If this is the case, we would remain within the financial perspectives and the flexibility instrument would not be needed for the time being, which means that it can be used in other areas.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would firstly like to express the support of the Group of the Europe Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party for the two reports by Mr Trentin and Mr Marinos, which deal with two key issues within the excessively complicated EU economic and monetary policy mechanism, of which the stability pacts and the broad economic policy guidelines are key components.I would like to highlight the following points: firstly, that we fully support the policy of budgetary rigour and the fulfilment of commitments established in the stability pacts. Therefore, we regret very much that the Member States, in the Ecofin Council in February, if my memory serves me correctly, did not support the Commission proposal with regard to the concern for the development of the Portuguese and German economies and the administration of their respective budgets. I would also add our concern at the French Government’s recent announcement. Therefore, I support the policy of budgetary rigour that will hopefully give confidence and strength to the European economy and its single currency, the euro.Lastly, I would like to point out that with regard to the broad economic policy guidelines, we agree with the Trentin report’s proposals, particularly where they aim to implement the Lisbon commitments after revision in the Barcelona Council. We particularly agree with the difficult compromise between achieving greater competitiveness whilst not abandoning the policy of economic and social cohesion. Clearly, this can only be achieved by putting an emphasis – as the Trentin report does, and as proposed by the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs – on the information society and the expansion of technological research and development activities. This will clearly give rise to the information- and knowledge-based society that will allow us to improve quality and be more competitive, which we hope for at the end of this decade.
Madam President, I believe the document that is before us today is a very significant document. I have taken steps to try to inform myself as to the equivalence that exists among governments and among national parliaments. Exceptionally, there may be one state of the 15 where more things that are conceded by way of openness to its parliament than in other states. But in the large majority of cases, there is no near equivalent and that is a significant element in this document.Secondly, we had a major debate in this House last year that centred among other things on the question of commissioners accepting individual and personal responsibility for the exercise of their high office. In this document there are significant clauses interpreting the mutual relationship between our institutions that also constitute significant progress.There are two points of criticism that my colleagues and my Group have asked to seek clarification on today. Article 1.4 in annex 3 regulates which persons or bodies within this House may request of the Commission access to confidential documents. Many of my colleagues are upset that no explicit reference is made to the rights of rapporteurs. We have brought the document as far as we can with the Commission, but I would say that, if we vote for it today, you must immediately instruct our Committee on Constitutional Affairs to take up the question of delineating the rules in the House that will make it easier for rapporteurs to make requests either of their chairmen or of the other bodies named in this document. If we include this, then many of my colleagues who have reservations, will vote yes.One final comment: this House has now begun its work on the question of transparency and the regulation on access to documents. Many of my colleagues have said to me – without anticipating the outcome of that work – that, should we ultimately need to review our framework in the light of any emerging trends in this regulation, the Commission President, Mr Prodi, should declare on the record, before the vote, that the Commission will be open to the idea of reviewing the document in the light of any evolving policy on transparency.(Applause)
Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteurs, the Chairman of the Committee on Budgets and the Commissioner. As we have already stated, the Group of the Liberal Democrat and Reform Party is fairly satisfied with this budget, which would appear to be rigorous and transparent throughout. This is part of our tradition. I would, however, immediately add that, in my view, it is also an excessively technical budget with only a very limited political dimension.We can accept the basic lines, particularly those relating to reform and enlargement, of course, which I feel is the greatest challenge facing us. However, precisely because it is a challenge, we must take more decisive, political action, action which is, above all, more visible to all the European citizens. I too, like the Committee Chairman, who spoke just now, feel that it is imperative that the procedure is reformed. The technical elements of the procedure need to be revised, it needs to be simplified and, in particular, its cultural and political dimensions need to be developed, with the Council’s powers defined in such a way that they are maximised, not reduced, to achieve a more effective, more focused and, above all, more topical debate. There needs to be a basic philosophy underlying the European budget, a basic philosophy of shared, not concentrated, administrative responsibility – and I stress, shared: this is extremely important – and Parliament needs to have a greater political role, for it must discharge its mandate as effectively as possible. Parliament, like the Union as a whole, must be a visibly political institution and make political responses.I will focus on just two technical aspects. The first concerns the issue of category 4, which my colleague has already touched on. I would add something further. It may be that we pay little or rather too little attention to the Mediterranean question, it may be that we pay too little attention to the issue of the Middle East. We go so far as to debate reconstruction, Afghanistan and issues concerning very distant countries, but there is a matter nearer to home which we will soon, all too soon, have to address more thoroughly and much more decisively.I will mention one more issue: culture. The funds committed for young people, training and information are utterly inadequate.
Mr President, Mr Solana, you have the full support and confidence of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, but we would remind you of the huge responsibility which now rests upon your shoulders. I am thinking partly of the forthcoming and important humanitarian, peace-keeping and peace-making tasks. But I am also thinking of the responsibility you now have for ensuring that the new European cooperation on defence does not give rise to any kind of split between NATO and the EU or between the United States and Europe. Such a split would only delight the despots and rogue States which threaten freedom and human rights. I believe you heard the concerns which some members of the American Congress expressed last week here in Parliament. You must lay these concerns to rest for, as you yourself have said, when we are able to present a united transatlantic front, we are in a position to do something. When we are divided, we are weakened, and the suffering of the oppressed is prolonged. So, maintain as close contact as possible with our American allies and do not forget Norway, Turkey and Canada, either. You also share a heavy degree of responsibility for ensuring that we do not end up as paper tigers. As George Robertson has said so often, we have two million soldiers but could not even put 40 000 soldiers into Kosovo. It may have been our weakness and lack of credibility which led to the war. Diplomatic pressure is only successful when it is backed up by credible economic and military threats. Everything else is wishful thinking. That is why the Member States must either authorise more expenditure or rearrange their priorities in favour of modern mobile units so that our soldiers are protected by the best equipment. We are therefore delighted about the decisions which were taken last Monday in Sintra.The third heavy burden on your shoulders is the responsibility for ensuring parliamentary scrutiny. This should be exercised first and foremost in the Member States. No soldier can, of course, be despatched without the approval of the relevant national parliament. It is therefore wrong for people to talk about a European army. It will be a force comprised of various national units. What is new is that it will be well prepared and able to act quickly under effective common leadership and using modern equipment. However, there is, of course, also room for a certain amount of parliamentary scrutiny and control by the European Parliament. As someone who both speaks and listens, we are glad to see you as a frequent guest both here in plenary and in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy. Finally, I should like to join you in expressing my pleasure at the incredible unity and speed with which this new form of cooperation is being set in motion. Yesterday, a few of us met the Portuguese Defence Minister. He was just as pleased and pleasantly surprised as yourself at the fact that it had been possible to agree about so much. Bear in mind that there are also non-aligned countries at the negotiating table. We share your delight, as long as we do not race ahead so quickly that transatlantic cooperation is impaired. There is one thing I shall again finally emphasise: that the purpose of all this is, of course, that we should acquire such credibility when we exercise economic and military pressure that military force is not used at all. That is the purpose of all this, and it is therefore also important that you should cooperate with Mr Patten, for it is military, economic and diplomatic pressure which together will put a stop to atrocities in neighbouring countries.
Madam President, maybe at long last we will decide that the Medical Services should not be placed in the basement. They would prefer to be on the same floor as the plenary session and maybe we could actually look into that.
Mr President, I am grateful to my group for being willing to allow me extra time. I would very much like to thank the Commissioner for his comments on the legal basis. For brevity’s sake, I would like to echo what Mr Medina Ortega and Mr Lund had to say on the matter.I do have two additional comments to make. The first concerns Article 11. The reports produced by this committee are crucial in terms of future policy. I am also delighted that this Commissioner is responsible for it. I do have my concerns as to whether the Commission has the capacity to work on this report. I am hoping the Commissioner might reassure us that an increase in the level of staff support within the Commission is on the cards.Finally, Mr President, major alterations must be made to the Council’s common position. It is important in terms of the legal basis, more far-reaching harmonisation of the market, better consumer protection and so on. Each of these elements in isolation probably lacks sufficient support here in Parliament for a qualified majority to be achieved. But as a package, it should lead to better balanced and more results-orientated legislation. There was also a readiness to compromise within the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy. I have in mind Mrs Martens and Mr Sacconi and our cooperation with them. I therefore urge you to support this compromise package.
Mr President, I only wished to say that I sent a letter to Mr Cox last week to inform him about a disaster which struck the island of Tenerife, specifically the capital, Santa Cruz de Tenerife, where unfortunately, as well as the material damage, seven people lost their lives. I would be grateful if you could pass on our condolences to the Mayor of the city and I would also be grateful if on Thursday this House could support the motion for a resolution that some Canarian Members have tabled.
Madam President, President-in-Office, President of the Commission, colleagues, this is an important place in which to celebrate this important moment. We in this Parliament are the tribune of the peoples of the European Union and we have gathered here today to declare solemnly our outrage, our sympathy, our solidarity and our common bond in humanity and democracy with the people of the United States of America, and with the people of New York City and Washington D.C.We witnessed yesterday a profoundly shocking event. It is a new and low threshold in the tide of human affairs. We witnessed an act of war – without a declaration of war – by persons, movements or states, as yet, not fully determined, but who acted with a grim and focused determination. We must make sure that our response is common and not isolated, shared and not unilateral, aimed at our common enemy, which is terrorism, but not at wider forces such as Islam or the wider Arab world, should that be the source whence this monster may have sprung.This modern apocalypse is America’s injury, but the wounds are universally shared among the community of democratic nations. To the people of the United States of America, to its President, its Congressional and civic leaders, and its communities throughout the country, especially the peoples of New York and Washington, to the grieving families of the missing and the dead and to those who have survived the ordeal, we express our sympathy in this hour of hardship and devastation.New York is a very special place. It is a multi-cultural microcosm of the whole world. It is a special gateway between our old continent and the New World. It was through Ellis Island that in earlier generations, before the spirit of democracy took the deep root it has right across our continent, that our huddled masses, our oppressed and our starving went to find freedom, democracy and opportunity.It is no accident that when the French Republic gave the people of the United States a gift to celebrate 100 years of that great republic, that they called that statue 'Liberty': no accident either that her extended arms should carry a torch of freedom. When someone touches that symbol, they touch us all deeply, because it is part of our common, human, democratic bond and inheritance.I remember, as a schoolboy, seeing on television at home a visit by John Fitzgerald Kennedy to places I had never been in our divided continent. I remember his visit to the great symbol of that gross division, Berlin, with its wall. I remember as a boy I could understand, although I did not know about politics or international affairs, that when that man said, “I am a Berliner”, he said something deep and meaningful in terms of solidarity at that time.Today, as the Prime Minister has remarked, we are all Americans, we are all New Yorkers, we are all Washingtonians. We share the sense of shock and horror. We share the bewildered outrage, we feel the vulnerability, for this is our common inheritance from yesterday's barbarous outrage. We share common democratic values and interests and we stand together willing to fight against terrorism and promote those interests and values.It is important that we as Europeans say to the Congressional leadership today: ‘You do not stand alone. You are not isolated. We can make common cause in this matter, and we must do so.’ But, most of all, we stand today in our common bond of humanity as our American friends bravely search for their survivors and for their dead.Language often fails us on these occasions. My own colleagues have asked me to invite you, Madam President, in addition to this solemn moment, to open a book of condolence that we might also convey through that, at some appropriate time to the Congress, our interlocutor in US democracy, that in spite of the space which divides us across the Atlantic, we are resolutely united by the bonds of democracy and freedom and in the fight against terrorism.Our message to them today, in this fight for democracy and against terrorism, is that our only choice is to stand united; for united we stand but divided we shall fall.(Loud applause)
Cambodia has a horrifying and violent past. The Cambodian people deserve a peaceful future. This is why it is of great importance that the forthcoming elections should proceed in a fair and peaceful manner. Moreover, the mass slaughterers should not escape their sentences. My group has concerns on both counts.We are receiving many reports on atrocities being committed in connection with the elections. The Cambodian People's Party is omnipresent and the authorities go out of their way to intimidate the people, particularly at local level. It seems that they can do this undisturbed and unpunished. The electronic media are also in the hands of Prime Minister Hun Sen's party. My group is particularly anxious that Sam Rainsy's party will not be given a fair chance as a result. Given his great courage and his merits in respect of a democratic Cambodia, Sam Rainsy deserves the Sakharov prize.The human rights situation is still bad. It is also regrettable indeed that, despite considerable amounts of European aid, economic and social development is stagnating. We are in favour of linking this aid to progress in the field of pluralism, human rights and free elections. After all, democratisation and prosperity cannot be seen in isolation from one another. We have to put the past behind us by doing now what is necessary to ensure a rich future for the poor Cambodian people.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, since the assessment we made in December of last year, the situation in Cuba has only worsened. All the proposals for cooperation, for promoting openness, democratic transition and economic support have come up against a brick wall of intolerance, rejection and, what is worse, a response which, as has been said, affects dozens of members of the Cuban opposition, independent journalists and human rights activists.This situation requires a categorical response and, as has been requested here, a unanimous and very clear response on the part of the institutions of the European Union, in order to promote the democratic process and, fundamentally, to guarantee human rights – some of which are as essential and important to a society as the exercise of freedom of expression.I believe we must make every effort and continue to do so in order firstly to demonstrate the position of the European institutions – this is expressed very clearly in this joint resolution, which I hope will be approved by the European Parliament today – and secondly to demonstrate our cooperation and solidarity with the members of the opposition who wish to see a free and democratic Cuba, with the activists and defenders of human rights working through the respective non-governmental organisations, demonstrating our particular concern for the leader to whom we awarded the Sakharov Prize, Mr Oswaldo Payá, and in order to contribute to preventing, as far as possible, the suffering of the Cuban population, who are the main victims of the current situation.
Mr President, Commissioner Fischler, on behalf of theI thank the Commission and the rapporteurs for this excellent work which does not seek only to simplify administration but this time also has an excellent goal from the point of view of farmers: simplifying the procedures for applying for support. In this sense this move is a very fundamental one. When travelling anywhere in the EU, talking to farmers, the first and only thing you hear is that bureaucracy, vast amounts of paperwork and the associated difficulties are creating a very negative picture for farmers. This is a very important issue especially as far as the smallest farmers are concerned.In the long term the scheme should be developed so that rural development activities are linked to it. The scheme should also include an expansion bonus, even now in its initial stages. It surprises me that the Commission is working on the basis of a policy whereby growth in income under the scheme would be set at a fixed level rather than being index-linked. The rapporteur has correctly intervened in the matter and pointed out that there is an opportunity for raising support outside the scheme by virtue of the agenda solution. I see this as a very important point. To make the scheme attractive also to farms attempting to improve production, our committee’s proposal on raising the level of support is justified. The level can be discussed but the principle especially on this matter is very important. For this reason this trial, which at the moment is experimental and temporary, should receive widespread support.
Mr President, I too should like to thank all the rapporteurs. With regard to decoupling, I also support the Commission proposals to a large extent, but there are exceptions to every rule, of which I should like to mention two.It should not be the case that agricultural products such as vegetables, fruit, flowers, and so on, which were not subsidised in the past, should now be subsidised indirectly. In my view, an exception should therefore be provided for in the regulation. The second exception should apply to potato starch. To my mind, the 50% decoupling, as proposed by the Commission, is not sufficient and should remain at 75% in order to avoid as unacceptable social consequences.I too am in favour of making the payment of premiums dependent on the observance of environmental requirements, but what are these? They are very vague. If every Member State were to observe the nitrate directive, agricultural policy would become very simple, but, as thirteen of the fifteen Member States do not observe the environmental requirements, we should prescribe clearer parameters.I would like to make a third remark with regard to the budget in general. I do not know what the costs are of the reports on which we are about to vote, but the current proposals mean that the budget is already extremely tight as it is. What will the Commission do when reform proposals are tabled for sugar, for vegetables and fruit, for olive oil and for tobacco? Can we then look forward to other reductions, other degression standards? This is the question I should like to put to the Commission.
Mr President, I should like to propose that we replace the words, ‘USA’s invasion of Afghanistan’ by the words, ‘the conflict in Afghanistan’.(The President established that there were no objections to the oral amendment)(Parliament adopted the recommendation)***President. – That concludes the vote.EXPLANATIONS OF VOTE- Report: Costa (A5-0074/2004)
It is very important that we have the opportunity to question the Commission on this sensitive issue and the issue between questioning and debate should not loom so large. We have a procedure and that is that we should proceed now to questioning in depth. Certainly in my group we have not prepared a list of speakers, nor do we wish to revert to that procedure at this moment. But we would welcome the opportunity to question the Commission in depth and eventually we can have with due process a reflective debate on the matter. We should not be discussing a sensitive question, such as this beef issue, on the hoof.
Mr President, unlike some colleagues, I do not believe that this House should seek a delay in fulfilling its responsibilities in relation to temporary agency workers. If we are to promote flexible labour markets then we must ensure that those working within them are not put at a disadvantage.We cannot risk temporary work being used as a way of bypassing normal employment laws rather than, as it should be, a properly regulated means of satisfying employers' short-term needs. It is for this reason that we should not emasculate the proposal by removing pay from the scope of the directive or applying it only to workers in assignments of more than 12 months. That said, I am not convinced that we have yet struck quite the right balance between flexibility and protection.There are real difficulties in implementing a fixed-term worker comparative for pay in the case of assignments of a short duration. Accordingly, I urge colleagues to support Amendments Nos 72 and 74 which should overcome this problem. Similarly, I hope for a positive vote on Amendments Nos 71 and 73 which guard against any adverse effects the directives might have in both the shorter and longer terms.Finally, my special thanks go to the rapporteur for the inclusive manner in which she has handled a very difficult dossier and my personal good wishes to her for the outcome of the vote tomorrow.
Mr President, I do not agree with the rapporteur. I think that the amendment can indeed supplement the amendment by the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism that has now been approved, and that it is a more precise statement of the content of the first amendment.
Mr President, Commissioners, I should first like to mention the proposal on cooperation between consumer authorities, which is extremely welcome, and I think that the rapporteur has done an exceedingly good job. It is both astonishing and depressing how much energy some Members have put into attempts to water this proposal down. I cannot conceive of a situation in which everyone but the consumer has rights in the internal market. That has been truly depressing, but I welcome this proposal, and hope that a large majority in Parliament will support the compromise proposal drawn up by Mrs Gebhardt.On the subject of Mr Wuermeling’s report on credit for consumers, I must say that I welcome the fact that we are having the debate today and that we have managed to make a good deal of progress. As previous speakers have said, improvements are needed, however, because otherwise there is a risk of the directives diluting the rights that consumers already have.Earlier on, a speaker mentioned the actual annual percentage rate of charge, and in this case, too, the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party and I should like to see a broader definition. The right to earlier repayment must also be improved. I do not think that the rapporteur’s compromise proposal goes far enough in this respect. As I often do in these debates, I should just like to mention the right to number portability in the telecommunications sector, which has given consumers important rights. In my home country, costs have fallen by 7% over the past year, and I think that the right to repayment has been a significant contributory factor.I also think that better information on credit cards is needed, and that the exclusions in some amendments are not really desirable.Finally, in my opinion, joint and several liability is really needed in order to develop the internal market and afford consumers protection when new products are placed on the market. I should also like to mention here something that happened in my home country. A new low-cost company went bankrupt, and only those consumers who had paid by credit card had any kind of protection. This also goes to show that this aspect is necessary for consumers when markets are developed.
The fight against the ever-increasing hole in the ozone layer is of major concern to the people of Europe and the world. The studies provide enlightening reading. For example, ozone has decreased by 6-10% in 20 years. In 1996, the hole covered an area of 20 million km2 for over 40 days and a record depletion of 46% in the ozone layer over Scandinavia, Greenland and Siberia was recorded.Yet recent studies show that the efforts made to combat greenhouse gases are far from adequate. There is no point in compiling figures: these issues are crucial and our health and long-term survival are at stake.Is there any need to highlight the increasing frequency of cancer and the acute immune disorders caused by this depletion of the ozone layer? This is why we unreservedly support this proposal which sets deadlines for eliminating a range of toxic substances.To be effective, these measures must deal with two concerns. Firstly, they must be justified in the eyes of the people. This means that the changes which will occur in our daily life with regard to HCFCs, CFCs and halons must be correctly explained. We must tell people why and how the EU has come to legislate in this very technical area.Secondly, we must respect the capacities of our enterprises to adapt. In the main, these have incorporated the environmental dimension into their product development policies. However, we must pay specific attention to the small and medium-sized enterprises which, due to their smaller size, sometimes have fewer opportunities or facilities than others for diversifying. With this regulation, enterprises are being confronted by new challenges which they must meet successfully and dynamically.- Aparicio Sánchez report (A5-0075/1999)
The fight against discrimination is an issue which has been on the agenda of the French Assembly since 1979. Two inquiries on racism have already been established and the French Parliament was the instigator in 1986 of a joint interinstitutional declaration.However, such initiatives are no longer enough. We must go further and legislate.The Buitenweg report is timely as racism and anti-Semitism are still of concern in Europe. Is this the right moment to reiterate our vigilance with regard to certain parties now in power?With Mr Deprez and Mr De Clercq I tabled an amendment to the title of the directive. In the French version the Commission’s initial text uses the phrase ‘sans distinction de race ou d’origine ethnique’. The concept of origin is fundamental as discrimination may relate not only to the current status of an individual but also to his origin and descent.We wanted to introduce the same nuance and precision with regard to the issue of race and therefore proposed ‘d’origine raciale’. This amendment was adopted in the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights but I note now that it has simply disappeared from the text submitted to you. We should like an assurance that this will be duly corrected.Also, although the issue of religion has been excluded from this directive for legal reasons, it is vital to reiterate that we are definitely not ignoring the forms of discrimination based on religious beliefs. Parliament has still to examine another Commission text in this respect.To conclude, the Buitenweg report is inspired by a proactive and progressive approach which I have supported. The risk of a resurgence of the neo-fascist and racist hydra requires close vigilance from us, more so now than ever before.We must lead the way in this fight.
Mr President, I would like to ask three sets of questions in the very generous allocation of 120 seconds given to me this afternoon.Firstly, on agriculture. Obviously, like everybody, we in the  Group share the enthusiasm for the outlines of the deal on the reform of the common agricultural policy. We accept entirely that the tactical priority must now be to turn the tables on the Americans in particular, and to see if they will put their money where their mouth is as far as agricultural reform is concerned.My group has a number of outstanding questions. Firstly, whilst there is visible progress in this reform on the elimination or the reduction of trade-distorting internal support, what about market access? There is nothing in that package that a priori includes improved market access: beyond a reiteration that the European Union takes in more products than anybody else, I want to know at what point are we going to offer greater market access? Also at what point are we going to really tackle some of the unforgivable aspects of certain sector-specific regimes still in place, notably in sugar?The second set of questions concerns the Singapore issues. My group accepts the basic view that the Singapore agenda is one that is worthwhile pursuing, but we are still not quite convinced that the legitimate concerns of developing countries about the scope and complexity of those talks have been addressed. What assurances can the Commissioner give us that those concerns will be addressed by or at the Cancun summit?Final set of questions. The Commissioner suggested in his opening remarks that he would act as if he were anticipating the outcome of the next Intergovernmental Conference as far as increased powers for the Europe Parliament are concerned. Could he give me an assurance today that, even if the treaty flowing from the Intergovernmental Conference, which includes the power of assent of the European Parliament, is not yet ratified, in those circumstances he would still submit the outcome of next year's conclusion of this round to us for a vote of assent?
Mr President, Copenhagen has been the place of many controversial summits but none will be more so than next week when the camel of enlargement approaches the eye of the needle of European domestic politics. We know that enlargement will make us more multi-cultural and more competitive. The central question is: will it also make us more democratic?Many of the answers to that question are being teased out inside the Convention, but it is certainly up to the European Council and not the president, Valéry Giscard d'Estaing, to decide just how far and how fast Member States are prepared to project the Union's experience in parliamentary democracy to the east and the south. I trust that the European Council and the Commission will be generous to Turkey in this respect. We should throw ourselves behind the process of regime change which is taking place in Turkey. There would be no stronger way of expressing support for Turkey's reformers than offering a schedule for the opening of the accession negotiations but only on the condition that the Turkish Cypriots were brought to accept the Annan proposals for a federated settlement of the problem of Cyprus. It will certainly be far more possible for them to accept a UN settlement should there be a firm prospect of membership for motherland Turkey itself. They frankly require the assurance of our settled intentions concerning our future partnership with Turkey and I know that the presidency will do all that it can to achieve this great breakthrough that is in its grasp.
Mr President, the report goes a long way to meeting our wishes, although there are a few points in respect of which we have tabled an amendment. Given the sensitive and emotional nature of the topic, thesets great store by a realistic account of the facts, for example by reporting the very diverse expert opinions on the subject of radiation limit values.Secondly, we believe it would be misleading to suggest that the nuclear industry act in a self-regulating capacity, especially when it comes to safety. The nuclear industry, too, is subject to internationally binding safety rules on the basis of which consistent standards have been established with which all actors must comply.Thirdly, recital e) is right to draw a distinction between, on the one hand, radioactive material which consists of isotopes for medical, industrial and research purposes – which makes up the lion’s share of such movements – and, on the other hand, radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuels intended for re-use. That is the most hazardous form of radioactive material, but, relatively speaking, it only makes up a very small proportion of the total. The distinction between specific nuclear material and radioactive material in more general terms, however, is not clarified elsewhere in the text.If the Commission were to look into all transport movements of radioactive material, this would duplicate the work of the International Atomic Energy Agency, which is soon to embark upon a similar enquiry. It would be useful if the Commission were to focus on the transport of nuclear material in the European Union, however.Fourthly, my group opposes the fact that the wider topic of the duty of consultation, with regard to the transport of all dangerous substances, is addressed in this report. This is not what the report is about. The liberals do believe, however, that the local authorities must be consulted on the transport of radioactive materials. The emphasis should then, however, be on compulsory prior notice of the transport of nuclear material.Finally, we welcome the IAAE’s decision to evaluate its transport rules every two years and adapt them, if necessary. We would like to emphasise that, in the interests of a consistently high safety level, the rules will have to be implemented by all Member States at the beginning of next year.
Mr President, may I just say that the whole discussion on this directive shows that there is an urgent need to make laws and rules clearer. There is a huge misunderstanding about how this is to be interpreted, when Article 4 makes reference to annexes and other things. I urge us all to support better regulation.
Mr President, will the United Nations Millennium Summit which took place this week be the last chance summit? I see it rather as yet one more chance for peace in the Middle East. Six weeks after talks broke down at Camp David, Bill Clinton is due to meet Ehud Barak and Yasser Arafat in New York tomorrow, after a month of intensive, albeit less media-attracting negotiation. So hope of saving the peace process is not lost, even if it means setting aside the original timetable and, hence, avoiding at all costs any unilateral provocation which would ruin months of effort.Everyone has his or her own interpretation of the outcome of Camp David and of the responsibilities incumbent upon either side. Discussions have certainly never progressed this far before. The gulf is still wide, although certain historical taboos have been broken. But that is not enough. We must now accept in our hearts what our heads have known and been dictating for a long time. This is the price for peace. To rely on the strength of symbols, on either side, is to hold on to a myth.As for Europe, which intends to support the process, not to take sides, it hopes to be more, much more, than the region’s banker. It is our historical and moral duty as well as our desire to become a full political partner very quickly, tomorrow if possible, and the simultaneous presence here of Avraham Burg, the Speaker of the Knesset, and Ahmed Qurie, the Speaker of the Palestinian Legislative Council, both of whom I welcome, cannot but augur well in this respect.
Mr President-in-Office, will the Italian Presidency succeed at this historic time for the Constitution and European integration? My hope, right up to the last, will be that the fruits of the Convention mature and are harvested in the interests of Europe.I would like to consult you on two political considerations as you approach the final two months of your presidency. The first consideration is radical, practical and symbolic all at once: we expect the Italian Presidency, together with the Commission, to lay the foundations for genuine-level European financing, controls and sanctions in the field of immigration. We expect more than just general intentions now; we expect progress to be made at last by one of the very countries which is most affected by the situation.Mr President-in-Office, I also expect an initiative from the Council you head on the situation in Iraq. The unanimous vote in the Security Council may lead to a new way forward. The European members of the Security Council have, at last, come to an agreement, and now the Council has to turn that compromise into an initiative: there can and must be a return to multilateralism, we can work together in the field of reconstruction, the humanitarian crisis, security and the democratic transition to Iraqi sovereignty in Iraq under the mandate and guidance of the United Nations.Mr President-in-Office, as a European, I cannot fail to express my deep concern at the way the Intergovernmental Conference is being conducted. You have confirmed the intention to conclude the work before December, remaining as faithful as possible to the Convention’s text without substantial compromises. However, it would appear that, thus far, the Italian Presidency has limited itself to taking note of and recording the positive and negative opinions of the various delegations on the different issues, with the danger, not least, that debates will be reopened on matters which were considered settled.Europe, however, as Mr Watson pointed out, does not need a Presidency which is content merely to rubber-stamp initiatives or act as a referee; it does not need pedantic lists of the different demands. Now is the time for leadership which will provide farsighted, wise guidance. President Prodi is right: an inflexible Constitution would inevitably fail. I therefore hope that precisely Italy, which, in 1985, succeeded with the IGC that led to the Single Act in achieving the impossible, will, in 2003, live up to its Europeanist traditions and help to launch a constitutional text which is flexible enough to be workable and convincing enough to be a reference point for European development over the next 50 years.(Applause)
Mr President, I should like to begin by saying that I am in favour of simple, clear, transparent ground rules for the political groups in the European Parliament. I am, however, opposed on principle to the use of taxpayers’ money for political parties. It is quite simply a question of whether parties are to be supported by public funds or by members of the individual parties. I believe they should be supported by the latter. In this matter, it is not the people, or the electorate, that have created a need for publicly financed political parties. The need that has arisen in this case has been created by professional politicians, and that is, as I see it, an artificial need. For what is a European party? For the individual taxpayer, it exists solely on paper and is a mere mirage, devoid of substance. In financial terms, there are no large amounts involved – as yet. This is the thin end of the wedge, however. I anticipate the aid increasing all the time, and it would grow at a rate in excess of the general rate of inflation.I also think a question mark can be placed over the democratic element in this proposal. The principle must be that, if we absolutely must give taxpayers’ money to European parties, all parties should be given it, and that would not be the case under the proposal. I am in favour of clear transparent rules, but I am not in favour of aid for European parties, and that is why I also reject this proposal.
I am grateful for the Minister's assurance that there is no pilot project so far. My understanding was that there was an intention to run one. I certainly do not see the point in passing the recommendation if it was not intended to be implemented.My alarm comes from the fact that the recommendation passed last November did not even acknowledge the risks of discrimination. That must be acknowledged because the network of fundamental rights experts pointed out that such profiling presents a major risk of discrimination. If one is to profile people by their characteristics, such as nationality and psycho-sociological features, and then decide from that who is likely to be a terrorist, one has to be very sure, it said, that there is a valid statistical link between the characteristics and the risks.I would like an assurance from the Minister that, if he has not done any pilot projects yet, if there are going to be any, or any real projects by Member States, he carries out that statistical exercise before allowing the projects to take place.
Mr President, I fully agree with Mr Vitorino’s statement that immigration is a two-way process which involves both rights and duties that have to be accepted.There are also other facets to this problem, amongst which we should certainly examine the issues of entry, housing and civil liberties; in short, integration into our European society. I believe it is a question, in this case at least, of turning these guest workers into citizens. What image of Europe are we projecting to the outside world, Commissioner, if, at the point of entry into the Union, the Schengen system, instead of helping to create an area of freedom, security and justice, is often gradually turning into a formidable instrument of electronic data collection and control?Then there are the problems of housing, the head-in-the-sand attitude, the tendency – helped by the media – to focus our fears and turn them into spectres that have much to do with highly misunderstood aspects of the cultural identity of our societies. Thus we often have a reductionist image. The report, with which I fully agree, should perhaps in my opinion have developed certain aspects which are plainly set out in the Commission’s communication: civic citizenship; guaranteed core rights and obligations; respect for diversity; action to combat discrimination; women; family; civic, cultural and political life; participation; education; and, not least, religion.I believe these varied aspects have to be taken into account, particularly in view of the legal tradition and the humanistic values which form the heritage that is still shared by our society. Commissioner, Mr Moraes, we must reject the reductionist tendency of seeing immigrants merely as man- or woman-power, from a purely economic point of view. This attitude must be utterly rejected: these people must be regarded as human beings who enrich our society, not just in terms of their ability to create growth and well-being but above all as people who embody values and a human, spiritual and cultural identity.
Mr President, I would like to congratulate Mr Duisenberg on a successful year in running euro monetary policy. Clearly what matters is internal price stability, and the external value of the euro is of much less significance. Indeed that was one of the reasons for creating the euro in the first place: it was precisely to protect the European economy from the volatility of the foreign exchanges to which Mr Goebbels has just referred.I am particularly pleased, too, that Mr Duisenberg has reiterated his promise to publish forecasts and econometric models, and I entirely understand his caveats. I hope that when he publishes the macroeconometric model he will do so in a form which makes it available and easily usable by outside researchers, perhaps on CD-ROM.However, in connection with Parliament's view of last year I would urge Mr Duisenberg to reconsider a formal framework for the publication of summary minutes. As he said, much of the debate which happens within the Council is filtering out in the form of discussion within the monthly bulletin, but this is not the same as a regular report with a formal framework in which it is discussed. That would help anchor expectations within the market, as well as fulfilling the important accountability mandate of the ECB.It is also clearly crucial the ECB should look only at the euro zone as a whole in terms of its inflation and price stability objective. It is essential to point out that different growth trends exist within the different national components of the euro zone economy, and that this implies different sustainable wage growth rates over time. That is why it is important that there should be an overall discussion of what potential sustainable growth rates of wages are in each of the component parts of the euro zone economy, and why this will actually help deliver low inflation combined with low unemployment.Those are the main points I would like to make. I would also very much like to back Mr Goebbels' remarks about the importance of enlargement, namely that we should not have two standards – one for us and one for them. I very much hope that we will continue to apply the criteria of the Treaty, no more and no less.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, I would like to send my condolences to the families of the victims – a total of 100, as the Commissioner has said – of this epidemic of atypical pneumonia. This virus, as we have also said, is spreading at the speed of air travel over the whole planet, in particular in South-East Asia and Canada. Europe so far appears to have been spared, relatively speaking. The Commissioner has given the current figures in the Member States and the candidate countries.I would also like to thank him for his detailed description of the two-way exchange of information between the WHO and the EU monitoring system.At this stage, what can be said? First of all, I believe there is cause for concern, if we refer to the statements made by a WHO spokesman, who said that this will be complex and could be a very long-term project. In short, the fight against the severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) epidemic seems to be a real race against time for health authorities and researchers all over the world, in particular as far as treatment is concerned. Secondly, we do have grounds for reassuring European citizens, as far as we can, as the Commissioner stated in a press release that only those suffering from the disease are infectious, which facilitates traceability.That said, however, it should be stated here that it is impossible not to be disgusted by the Chinese Government’s behaviour, which was both thoughtless and irresponsible. It took the Chinese Minister for Health almost five months after this virus first appeared to make the information public.Having said this, I shall return to Europe to end on the most important point. It should be noted here that this new crisis provides yet another argument for the case of those, including the previous speakers and, of course, myself, who want public health in the broadest sense to become a shared competence of the Union. This would be more appropriate now than ever, at a time when we are drawing up our draft Constitution. I am convinced that, in the long run, the crisis will lead to progress in this ‘Europe of Health’ and speed up the project mentioned by the Commission to set up a European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control based on the model of the Atlanta CDC by 2005.IN THE CHAIR: MRS CEDERSCHIÖLDVice-President
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, approximately two years ago, information was circulating to the effect that Roma women were being sterilised against their will in Eastern Europe, especially in Slovakia.On 17 October 2003, Mr Alvaro Gil-Robles, the Council of Europe’s Commissioner for Human Rights, published a recommendation on ‘Certain aspects of law and practice relating to sterilisation of women in the Slovak Republic’. The recommendation states that there has been no organised policy in this area. It has, however, happened that women have been sterilised against their will.In March 2002, I put a question about this to the Commission, which promised to follow up the matter and enquire of Slovakia whether proof had been found of such compulsory sterilisation really having taken place. Mr Alvaro Gil-Robles, the Council of Europe’s Commissioner for Human Rights, has now published this evidence, and I would ask the Commissioner to fulfil its promise. We cannot have an EU in which what is most fundamental is not respected: a person’s right to his or her own life. I hope that everyone else who, later in the debate, discusses issues of life and death will also consider this aspect. We cannot accept such things in a European Union.
Mr President, Commissioner Byrne, Mrs Oomen-Ruijten mentioned before me that one in four Europeans die every year of cancer, that is almost one million people: alarming figures that mean that we have to be ambitious regarding prevention. What we have before us today is a recommendation. Of course, we know its limits, but this cannot stop us from being ambitious, I have said it and clearly too. This, I believe, is what we are endeavouring to do in the committee and I would like to stress briefly the main points that were improved on the original text.First of all, lowering the recommended age for mammography screening for breast cancer from 50 to 40, was, I would say, obvious in light of the statistics on prevalence and current practice in several Member States. Then, combining the cervical smear (pap test) with the HPV test to detect cervical cancer. This is a crucial addition since human papilloma virus kills 12 800 women every year in Europe. Figures published by experts show that the introduction of the HPV test would help to reduce this number of deaths by at least a third. Allow me, in passing, to commend the Czech Republic because this accession State is the only State in Europe that currently reimburses for this test. Thirdly, and we are now moving on to the male population, the introduction of screening for prostate cancer with the PSA test. This is also a matter of urgency: prostate cancer is the most common type of cancer in men and the second cause of death after lung cancer. It can be permanently cured if it remains localised in the prostate. This blood test is very simple, routine and should be recommended from the age of 50 years in our text.I would also just like to say how important it is that everyone, including the less well informed, has access to screening, which is why I wanted to recommend mobile screening campaigns here. It is also in this same general mindset of informing the public that I would like to conclude by stressing, over and above the precise recommendation and before screening, the importance of primary prevention when talking about cancer. Health education, diet, the fight against smoking, sport, moderate exposure to the sun, like many measures at national level and behaviour at an individual level, will enable us to prevent these avoidable cancers from developing.
Mr President, I thank all those who have spoken on my report. I should just like to clear up a few misunderstandings.Firstly, nowhere does this report say that fighting racism means you should have no immigration controls. It says that such controls should not be racially discriminatory and should avoid fuelling xenophobic attitudes or hostility to ethnic minorities. The references to enhanced rights for third country nationals means, of course, rights for those who are legally resident.Secondly, on religion and identity, there is an assertion that there is no exclusivity. I agree with Mr Schulz. Christianity has been an important contributor to European values but it does not hold a monopoly on them.Thirdly, reference has been made to quotas. Nowhere in this report are quotas mentioned. As a liberal I am opposed to quotas.Fourthly, on Austria, the assertion is made that we should not mention Austria because of the time-frame of the report. This report is the annual debate on racism in the year 2000. It refers to where we are now.I welcome the remarks of Mr Oostlander, and I welcome his support for the report. As a gesture of goodwill I will be accepting five small amendments from the EPP, though incidentally none of those mentioned by Mr Evans. I very much hope that more members of the EPP/ED Group will support this report.
Madam President, Commissioner, I would firstly like to congratulate the rapporteur on his report, because I believe this is an important opportunity to establish common control of the European Union's external borders. Let us not forget that these borders, as Robert Schuman said, were Europe's historical scars. At the moment they are external borders and we do not know whether in a few year’s time they will be internal borders, as in the case of other borders. However, in any event, it is necessary to establish protection and this must be established at Community level as far as possible.It is true that the Member States have been carrying out these duties, but I believe that the European Union, also in order to present an image of unity to the outside, must have a common policy for the protection of borders and I therefore believe the proposal made to be extremely positive: that it be a genuine Community agency.In this regard, in relation to the duties of this agency – such as the expulsion of third-country nationals – I believe this is an issue which must be developed later on and that it is premature to deal with it at the moment.
Mr President, as draftsman of the opinion of my committee, I would like to highlight the importance of Hong Kong in terms of international trade. Back in 1997, Hong Kong was ranked eighth in the list of major world trading powers and tenth in the list of European Union trading partners. Since then, and despite the Asian financial crisis, trade relations between the European Union and Hong Kong have gone from strength to strength.As far as relations between Hong Kong and its international trading partners are concerned, more specifically the World Trade Organisation, the EU and Hong Kong share a number of common goals and the two work very closely together, which is useful in the light of the forthcoming trade round.In my recommendation, I referred to the important role which Hong Kong could play when China joined the World Trade Organisation. Hong Kong could show China how an open, fully integrated market can play a leading role in the region and can in this way achieve economic development and sustained growth.Moreover, since Hong Kong constitutes a major sales market for China, Hong Kong can exercise influence on economic reform in China. For these reasons, we must stress the importance of closer cooperation between the European Union and Hong Kong in financial terms and in terms of trade and direct foreign investments.Hong Kong has concluded many bilateral agreements over the past few years. We should bear in mind that in the framework of the EU-China agreement with regard to the possible accession of China to the World Trade Organisation, these bilateral agreements will need to be reviewed.Although, economically speaking, we are right to term the relationship with Hong Kong a success, I should highlight a number of drawbacks, including the fact that the protection of intellectual property rights remains a huge problem. Our companies are still being faced with violations of copyright and the manufacture and sale of counterfeit products.We also have concerns in the social field. After all, working conditions reportedly leave a great deal to be desired, especially vis-à-vis immigrant workers. As far as the inquiry is concerned, we must call for both Hong Kong and the European Union to play a valuable role in the many projects which are in the pipeline.
Mr President, Commissioner De Palacio, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to thank Mr Collins for his successful report. The continuing growth of air travel is causing pressure on air travel safety. Safety precautions are essential. Although air travel has been a relatively safe form of transport, the congestion of airports and airspace has increased the risk of accidents. The majority of accidents are due to human factors. Aviation is becoming more technical and is increasingly relying on the ability of staff on the ground to produce safe air navigation services. For this reason it is important to obtain information on the functioning of these services.Gathering and storing information about exceptional occurrences and exchanging information are vital to increasing the safety levels of civil aviation. It is important that exchanging information regarding risk situations and accidents functions both within and between Member States. Member States must exchange experiences and information so that more risk situations can be avoided. If the transfer of information on security deficiencies is to be improved, however, we have to guarantee the data protection of individuals and companies, as Mr Collins proposes in his report.Each year, Member States must submit a report on the level of safety of civil aviation. If a risk situation or accident is due to serious negligence, the Member State must have the right to initiate legal proceedings. In my opinion, cooperation between Member States to increase safety in civil aviation is an important precaution due to the growth of air travel. The safety of Europe’s airspace is to everyone’s benefit.
Mr President, although the Court of Auditors’ criticism of the Commission’s internal control and monitoring systems is fierce and direct, it is my opinion that we must recommend to Parliament that the Commission be granted discharge in respect of the implementation of the sixth, seventh and eighth Development Funds for 2001.In my report, I have focused on certain key basic concepts in current development policy and attempted to investigate whether these basic concepts place special requirements on, or raise particular issues in connection with, checks on the use of the funds. In this connection, I would like to emphasise various points:Ownership: ownership is of great importance if we are to manage development aid effectively. The point is that legitimate requirements of donors, a policy of relief of poverty, environmental aspects, etc. may conflict with national and local priorities.Budgetary support: budgetary support is another concept that caught my attention during my work on the report. As far as I can see, in principle there is no reason – certainly not from a control point of view – to avoid budgetary support. However, the Commission must carefully ensure that in future there is clarity concerning when and under what conditions budgetary support is an effective form of aid.Decentralisation: the much discussed decentralisation that the Commission has implemented is based on more decisions being made on the spot rather than here and in Brussels. I support this principle, but the Commission must ensure that the current problems with the audit arrangements at headquarters are not simply exported to the delegations.Underutilisation: the implementation of payments from the funds quite simply takes place too slowly. Can it be right that, for 2001, there was a total amount of approximately EUR 8 500 million outstanding for obligations and projects that had yet to be implemented? Moreover, I find it alarming that the three funds effective for the 2001 financial year have been in the process of implementation for 16, 11 and 4 years respectively. I also find it incomprehensible and bureaucratic that, in administrative terms, implementation must take place via three funds at the same time. I expect the Commission to present a realistic plan soon for increasing the speed of implementation and for simplifying administration of the funds.The declaration by the director-generals: in order for any significance to be attached to this document, I expect next year’s declaration to state clearly what ‘a reasonable assurance’ means. A limit must be placed on the number of reservations that can be made and on when these reservations have consequences.The Community’s external links are currently divided between no less than six different services. This fact was supposed to have been evaluated in 2002, but we have not yet seen any results of these evaluations. We are still waiting.As a result of its financial audit, the Court of Auditors’ sharply criticises the Commission’s internal control structure and monitoring mechanisms. This is regrettable, even a matter for criticism, since it means we cannot assess whether we are getting value for money.Finally, with regard to the budget: it is now up to the Commission to establish specific action plans and time scales for at long last bringing the development funds into the general budget. It is entirely unacceptable that tax-payers’ money is not being used as effectively as it could be, and this is due not to the Commission – which is so often blamed – but to the governments in certain Member States.My report on the development funds is only part of the overall discharge procedure. The discharge procedure is an opportunity for Parliament to test the Commission’s ability to administer the EU’s tax money. In this connection, I am surprised that the rate of reform in the Commission seems to be declining in certain areas. In view of many of the figures that we are discussing, it is essential that we have a reliable accounting system. That is not the case at present. The current Commission replaced the Santer Commission, which had got bogged down. We may ask whether the same thing is in the process of happening to this Commission. In the areas that I have been working on, it had the opportunity and time, as well as the ability, to reform the administration of the EU. A lot remains to be desired, and I must say that Mr Prodi’s wish for five more years as President of the Commission represents excessive optimism. If the goods had been delivered, if the reforms had been implemented, and if the will and ability to get rid of old, poor administrative practices had been demonstrated, there would be reason to wish him every success, but that does not appear to be the case at present.(Applause)
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would protest about the fact that the Council is not represented here today in order to provide us with the legal evaluation we requested. It is unacceptable that we, as a Parliament, do not have access to the same information as the Council. It is unacceptable discrimination between the two institutions. I should like to have seen us in Parliament postponing the debate on the proposal until we had received the Council’s legal evaluation. Unfortunately, that is not what the big two political groups wanted. The usual demand for transparency is transparently not so important when money is at stake and national interests to be looked after.I have, however, received an answer from the Commission regarding the regulation’s compliance with the WTO rules. The Commission sees no problems. There, I disagree. The Commission says that the regulation will not have any negative effect on third countries. That is incorrect. In future, a Japanese shipyard, for example, will compete with European shipyards that receive State aid. In that way, the regulation will have a negative effect on third countries, for example Japan. The Commission also says that the proposed regulation cannot be regarded as biased action by the EU against South Korea, something that would be contrary to the WTO regulations. The regulation states quite specifically that European shipyards can only receive State aid if they are in direct competition with Korean shipyards. Korea is mentioned specifically, then. A more biased course of action cannot be imagined.With this proposal, we, in the EU, are doing something that is downright illegal. I urge that what was adopted in Parliament’s committee be rejected, just as I should ideally like to see the Commission withdraw its proposal and instead concentrate on taking WTO proceedings against the Koreans. What is the Commission trying to do with all these amendments to extend the period of the regulation and to increase the number of types of ship that are eligible for aid? Will the Commission confirm that it will on no account comply with Parliament’s requests today? Will the Commission confirm or deny that it has plans to table an altered proposal that includes LNG tankers? I very much hope that the Commission will answer these questions.(Applause)
Mr President, it became known this week that two prominent Cambodian opposition papers have been threatened with closure because they are reported to have insulted the king and prime minister. These papers actively support the opposition politician, Mr Sam Rengie. Legal proceedings have been initiated against Sam Rengie himself in order to lift his parliamentary immunity so that he can be brought to trial for treason. In his millennium speech, he dared to raise the fact that it should become clear what the procedure would be for appointing the successor to King Sihanouk in the event of his death.In March of last year, a member of Sam Rengie’s party was killed by a group of men in military uniform in the province of Kandal. In September, two members of the party were arrested because they were reported to have been involved in a rocket attack on the prime minister. This is notably the only party in Cambodia which has no military arm. In October, a member of parliament belonging to the same party was abducted by uniformed men and not released until the ransom was paid. The pattern of intimidation is clear.There is more going on in Cambodia: prisoners are being tortured, the army and police are involved in the trade in women and children, and people are held on remand to an excessive degree. All this is happening on a daily basis. Even more serious is the government’s refusal to bring the leaders of the Khmer Rouge before an international tribunal.It is true, the civil war in Cambodia is over and political tension has eased. The way in which the political opposition is now being treated, however, gives us cause for great concern and, if it carries on like this, it is bound to impact on the Union’s relations with Cambodia.
Mr President, I thank my colleagues in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy for giving me another opportunity to work on Romania's accession to the European Union of Romania. At the moment, Romania has a unique opportunity, unequalled in modern times, to make very swift progress. For the first time in living history, it has a stable government, elected on a democratic mandate. It has clear political leadership, a greater understanding of the European Union's Community values and exceptionally good economic signals.The reform process is under way under the tutelage of the European Commission and with the efforts the Romanian administration has made on the acquis communautaire a larger number of chapters is under negotiation now than had been anticipated. If Romania continues to move ahead in this way and has the courage to undertake the painful political structural reforms, there is nothing to stop Romania joining the European Union without delay and it is pleasing to know that 79% of Romanians are enthusiastic about this prospect.The accession process is continuing. The number of chapters is increasing and I am pleased to announce that the Commission could receive all the position papers from the Ministry by Christmas, if it is able to do so. Certainly that is what the European Ministry for Integration in Romania is hoping for. President Iliescu announced in Gothenburg that he hoped and believed that all chapters could be fulfilled during his period of office. We in Parliament are dismayed and I am sure others must be too, that the visa restrictions have not yet been lifted. The Ministers for Justice and Home Affairs are meeting today and I sincerely hope that they will come to the conclusion that visa restrictions are no longer necessary for Romanian citizens. It is pleasing to note that the German Ambassador to Romania last week opened the new embassy by laying the foundation stone and saying that this embassy will have no visa section.The Romanian Government has decided to be judged by action and not by words. It has already done excellent foreign affairs work through Romania's chairmanship of the OSCE and made excellent progress in its relationships with the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. It might be dogged by poverty, but good things have happened; industrial productivity has gone up by 17% and inflation is coming down little by little.Romania's largest investor is still France, but other EU Member States such as Germany, Italy, Greece and the United Kingdom are coming in. It has at the same time been cementing its relationship with North America and particularly with the USA. But Romania's destiny remains in Europe and her future lies with NATO and the European Union. Perhaps Ceausescu's bitter legacy, however, was responsible for the fact that the political will for change was slower to emerge in Romania than in some other former Soviet Union candidate countries. Indeed, the treatment of children in Romania, as the Commissioner mentioned this morning, rapidly became a global media horror story.Today, however, Romania is in the process of change, helped all the way along the line by the Commission's faultless work in Brussels and Bucharest and guided by long-term friends here in Parliament right across the political spectrum. We are working as a team to assist Romania in her progress towards the European Union.As the Commissioner said on another occasion, the progress of integration is unstoppable. Romania is an integral part of that process and social change in the last few months has been rapid. Gay rights are now part of law, an anti-trafficking law has recently been passed and domestic violence law has gone through. A children's act, on children's rights, which will incorporate adoption law, both local and international, is now being prepared.The high-level group for Romanian children is moving towards registration. This will incorporate a wise persons' panel to assess Romania's capacity to come back into the inter-country adoption world when the time is right. It is imperative that the children's act is not hurried.Local adoptions have doubled in the last few months and 20 000 children are leaving special schools this week and will be going back into normal schools and normal life. That is tremendous progress. Here may I pay special tribute to my Spanish colleagues in the European Parliament, who have had many pressures on them from different families in Spain. I am delighted that the new Romanian Government has nominated very competent officials to review the problems that these Spanish families are facing. I will keep a very careful eye on this and report back to my Spanish colleagues.In conclusion, Romania has much to offer the European Union and the world. Its deep-rooted knowledge of its early European status in the Roman Empire gives it every encouragement to work through these difficult times and in due course become a full Member of the European Union.
Mr President, my group has voted, with good reason, for the whole of Amendment No 3 to the Brok report, including the section in which Parliament urges Iraq to implement all relevant Security Council resolutions to avoid the implementation of these resolutions having to be enforced.The resolution links this to a statement by the Security Council about the result of the inspections. As I highlighted in my contribution to yesterday's debate, the  Group too is of the opinion that explicit permission from the Security Council is required for military action. This is, in fact, how the's entire amendment should be interpreted.
Mr President, I want first of all to thank Mr Martínez Martínez for all the hard work he has put into this regulation. The European Parliament cannot possibly support cutting development aid to South Africa by ten per cent. Of course, I deeply regret the fact that the Council sat on this urgent matter for eight months so that there has been no legal basis for cooperation work since the beginning of the year.Relations between the European Union and South Africa must not be damaged. South Africa ought to – and must – be the European Union’s greatest and best friend in Africa, for South Africa will play a quite decisive role in the whole continent’s future. In times of large-scale conflict on the African continent, for example in Congo, Angola, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Sierra Leone, Uganda, Rwanda and Algeria – not to mention the intense unrest of recent months in Zimbabwe and the hatred which President Mugabe has been stirring up there – South Africa and the country’s remarkably strong democratic institutions constitute a constructive and stabilising factor in leading Africa towards a brighter and more peaceful future.South Africa has a vigorous constitution with a clear commitment to human rights and freedoms. The country has a constitutional court whose judgements are respected by the president. Free elections have been held. There is freedom of the press, and the office of president was in a peaceful and orderly state when the country’s great reconciler and nation builder, Nelson Mandela, left it. The Truth Commission, led by the Anglican bishop, Desmond Tutu, has demonstrated its willingness to strive for genuine reconciliation in South Africa.Sweden’s prime minister called the Cairo Conference, held earlier this year between the EU and Africa, “the start of something new and great”. A democratic and reconciled South Africa is the prerequisite for this “something new and great”, in which Africa and the countries of Europe meet on a new and equal footing and look forward, instead of remaining stuck in the old colonial period.South Africa is a necessary engine of democracy for the whole of South Africa and for Africa in its entirety. It can show that it is freedom, together with democratic and strong ethical and moral values, through which Africa can advance furthest.
Mr President, Commissioner, clearly, the signature of any agreement constitutes an important milestone in the Barcelona process. This is particularly so if the agreement is being signed with Egypt, which is such an important country. We know and believe it can play a leading role in North-South and South-South dialogue, and be in the forefront of economic and commercial development.As General Morillon stated, we also believe that Egypt is ready to take the lead in all issues relating to cultural dialogue and civil society, not just in economic and financial matters, and that it is in a position to do so. Furthermore, Egypt’s key role as a mediator in the Arab-Israeli conflict is patently obvious.For all these reasons, substantiated cases of infringement of fundamental human rights and freedoms, such as those referred to today, give cause for particular concern. Article 2 cannot therefore be simply a political clause. It has to have tangible value. It is important for those countries to progress along the road to democracy. We believe the Egyptian government should take this fully into account.I should like to make one point clear to Mr Sakellariou. Nobody has raised the possibility of voting against this report. The previous vote was not for or against this report. As I see it, sounding a note of caution simply amounts to giving Egypt the importance due to it as a country. It does not mean penalising it.
Mr President, Commissioner, although I am grateful to you for your extensive and clear response, I am nevertheless left with a problem. At the end of your intervention, you draw a clear distinction between analogue and digital copying, whereby the former would not be harmful to the information society, while the latter would. As far as I know – and I have been involved in information society legislation for years – we in Europe specifically do not draw a distinction between digital and analogue, in the sense that legislation must be technology-neutral. So I am a little taken aback by your statement.Moreover, I am surprised that the directive does not tend more towards harmonisation, particularly because your offices initially indicated that it would do so. Where fair compensation is concerned, it is important to establish whether the rightholder is actually being adversely affected, whether any technological protection measures are available and whether any other payment is made to the rightholder. This is why I think that it is regrettable after all that Member States are not required to adapt their legislation in the sense that only fair compensation is granted.
Mr President, the request for urgent procedure cannot be accepted by Parliament as the Council has not forwarded to Parliament a text to which the international agreement makes reference, namely the Commission's draft decision on adequacy, declaring that passengers' data are adequately protected by the US; nor has it received the so-called undertakings by the US administration. In other words, we still have no guarantee that European passenger data transferred to the US will not be passed on to third countries.This is the first vote of the new enlarged Parliament, the only democratically elected institution that represents 450 million citizens. The Council is asking us to vote with closed eyes on a question that relates to our fundamental rights. If we accept this request, Parliament cannot be taken seriously. In addition, there is a procedural defect in that translation into the new languages is not available. I ask you to withdraw this item and also to respect our referral of the matter to the Court of Justice.(Applause)
Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to thank Mrs Schroedter for an excellent report. She has gone into the issue in some depth and in the committee debate she took account of many of the amendments that have been tabled regarding this report. The rapporteur has also quite rightly stated that Parliament was not heard in time regarding the guidelines. We are badly behind now in this matter. Hopefully, the stands Parliament has taken will help, however, in the mid-term appraisal of the programmes and in their practical implementation. For the time, the report grew too large when it was being debated. It contained details and issues that had already been raised in previous reports. At this stage it is more important to concentrate on assessing how we can use this process to steer Union regional policy, bearing in mind that the aim is to reduce regional inequality.Our Group emphasises the importance of the principle of subsidiarity, the responsibility of Member States and the role of local players in drafting and implementing programmes. It is especially important to get SMEs involved in the planning and implementation of programmes. Our Group also considers it important to take greater account of remote and peripheral areas and wishes to increase interaction between towns and rural areas. We oppose the excessive control the central administration of the Union and its Member States exercises and we are calling for a reduction in the bureaucracy that has taken root in the drafting and implementation of programmes. Projects implemented with support from the Union have had their effect watered down all too often by slow decision making and complicated administrative processes. Funds have often been granted for projects which have had no lasting benefit for the area concerned. Projects have to be carried out more efficiently, more flexibly and they have to be made more productive.While the report was being prepared, it was interesting to discuss the Union’s regional policy in general. For us new members, it was the first time, and this was a very interesting process. This report is very good and our Group supports it.
Mr President, I too would like to thank Mrs Haug for her excellent work in preparing the budget. Mrs Haug and the Committee on Budgets have taken account of the proposals by the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism. Our committee’s main objective was to see that there were sufficient payment appropriations in next year’s budget. In this way, we ensure that problems with last year’s arrears are resolved and new programmes are introduced effectively. If necessary, the matter of payment appropriations must be examined in the supplementary budget in 2001. The amendments to cross-border cooperation are justified, but we were slightly off target with regard to Interreg and URBAN. The focus for transport is the development of the trans-European transport networks. I am grateful for the investment in sustainable transport, but it has to be said that transport and tourism appropriations are little more than token gestures. In the years to come we will need considerably more in these areas. Our committee will be monitoring the implementation of the budget. The effective use of resources will serve to improve the employment situation, particularly via SMEs and new technology.
Mr President, this Spring Council will be dominated by the economic reform agenda and rightly so. Yet there is something a little strange in talking about the future of Europe when the draft constitution fashioned to facilitate that future languishes in Council. Liberal Democrats and Reformers in this House welcome the intensive consultations undertaken by the presidency. Signs from most national capitals suggest that it should not be beyond the wit of our Member States to deliver a deal. President-in-Office, we urge you not to give up on your efforts to break the deadlock at the IGC and secure a constitution for Europe before the elections to this House in June.I should also like to thank you, President-in-Office, for going off-script in your remarks. Your line that it is 'possible to find a consensus in the context of a process leading to a conclusion' is one of Sir Humphrey's finest. I am pleased to see that he is alive and well in Justus Lipsius.(Laughter)However, your line that the key to it all is political will is exactly right.The potential problems of an EU of 25 are painfully clear. Without institutional reform this Union cannot function effectively. It is time to stop pretending that life will somehow go on if the IGC fails. Forget the infamous Polish slogan 'Nice or death'. For an enlarged Europe, Nice is death.I share the Commission's concern about tinkering with the draft constitution. Some of Europe's leaders are playing poker with the Union's future in the last chance saloon. It is time to show our cards: governments, people, parliamentarians alike. Do we demand a stronger, more credible Europe at home and abroad? Do we insist on integration where it is needed? Do we want the President of the Commission to be Europe's best and brightest, able to command support across party lines? Liberal Democrats and Reformers are in no doubt about our answers to these questions: yes, yes and yes!I regret that the European left, which gave us the inspirational leadership of Jacques Delors, now seems to lack conviction about the future of our continent. Mr Poettering's platoon seems more concerned about making the next President of the Commission their political plaything than about the content of his or her programme. It is alright, Mr Poettering, for Wilfred Martens to claim that theis 'uncompromisingly pro-European': you look more like uncomfortably pro-European to me! Do you speak in the name of all of your Group, or just one part of it?The European Council also has to debate Europe's external relations. It should be recognised that without exception, Europe speaks more strongly in the world when it speaks with a single voice. That is why, President-in-Office, I make this appeal to you: last night, five of the nine British detainees at Guantanamo Bay were repatriated to the United Kingdom. Even as a British citizen, I see this less as a gain for Britain than as a loss for Europe. Because if the Council had pushed Europe's case over bilateral bargains, we might have had a more united and principled stand. We should have insisted on securing the release of all Europe's detainees from Guantanamo Bay.(Applause)I challenge your presidency to stand up for our Union's values by speaking for Europe as a whole at the EU-US summit on the issue of the remaining Guantanamo Bay detainees.We have to pull together now as a continent or we will fall apart. The pro-European forces in government and this House have to make their case with conviction, because we need a new constitution, a new credibility and a new self-confidence, and we need them now.(Applause)
Mr President, Commissioner Bolkestein, ladies and gentlemen, I am happy to announce our group’s support for the reports by Mr Katiforis and Mrs Kauppi, whose proposals are a significant step forward in the creation of a single market in financial services, in accordance with the Commission’s proposals contained in the action plan on financial services.The removal of obstacles in the Member States with regard to financial markets is essential in the Europe of the euro and will enable us to take advantage of all the opportunities offered by the existence of the single European currency. Allow me once again to repeat the comparison I have made before. What we are now undertaking in the financial and monetary field is what we undertook ten years ago with the establishment of the European single market for goods and services, ensuring the general freedom of movement for capital, workers and goods. We have set a timetable: 2005, and our fellow Members’ proposals, I believe, move in the right direction. They support the Commission’s proposals, they highlight the need to meet the timetable and, at the same time, they offer and indicate specific aspects. With regard to the report by Mrs Kauppi, I believe that paragraph 16, on the mechanisms which have been applied and proposed – and which the Commission has already implemented – to resolve cross-border extrajudicial disputes relating to financial services, is essential to overcoming possible problems at Member State level. This system and this concern also appear in Mr Katiforis’s report. I congratulate both of them on their work and I repeat that we support them.
We fully share the view that cultural diversity should be recognised as a fundamental right, and we therefore choose to support Mrs Prets report on cultural diversity. The EU is, and must remain, a mosaic of minorities and cultures. As liberals, we always put the private individual at the centre of all political decisions. We therefore believe it to be of the greatest importance both to confirm in international law that every state or group of states has a legitimate right freely to decide what cultural policy they wish to pursue, and to strengthen the policy of international cooperation and solidarity on cultural issues. Linguistic diversity must also be retained within the EU.We are, however, dubious about the idea of the EU being legally entitled to take measures within the area of culture and the media in order to preserve and promote cultural diversity. We do not therefore wish to support the EU’s developing a legal instrument for cultural diversity.
Mr President, on behalf of the, I should like to welcome this report and to thank Mrs Sörensen for her excellent work in drawing up such an important document.I welcome the underlying Commission communication, but I would say, on behalf of my Group, that we regret that this communication was not much stronger. It is quite clear that the Treaties provide the Union with the instruments that are necessary to strengthen protection of the victims of crime. I think, for example, of some of the conclusions of the Wergens report, and we would have expected more from the Commission than proposals for greater dialogue and the exchange of best practice. We need clear measures to help victims with access to assistance, justice and compensation.However, it must be said that if we feel the Commission could do more, the biggest problem is by far the Member States. It seems to us incredible that seven Member States have still not ratified the 1983 Convention on compensation for victims of violent crime and that standards of justice are still so low in so many Member States. Let me give just one brief example from my own constituency. Mr Pike, a lorry driver in my constituency, was recently assaulted by his employer in the Netherlands. Mr Pike is not a wealthy man and the cost of legal redress is high. He does not have access to legal aid in Britain because he has to employ a lawyer in the Netherlands to help him. He does not have access to legal aid in the Netherlands. He is unable to secure any compensation or, indeed, any justice for the injuries he has suffered.Unless we are able as a Union to help in relatively clear and simple situations like this, our citizens will not have confidence in the single market and will not feel part of the European Union. I hope that we can take up some of the ideas put forward in this report to improve their situation.
Mr President, I think it is only right that we should use most of this afternoon to discuss the smoking heap of ruins that the former Soviet Union has left behind. In fact, the conflict in Dagestan has to do not only with the conflict between the Russian army and militant Islamicists from Chechnya but also with Russia’s weakness, with oil in the Caspian Sea and with poverty in the northern Caucasus which is being increased by the lack of economic support from Moscow. There are perhaps 30 different peoples in Dagestan with just as many different languages. One small group consists of Chechens who are supporting the guerrilla leader Basayev in an attempt to incorporate Dagestan into Chechnya. On the other side there are these fundamentalist Wahabis who want to establish an Islamic state with support from Saudi Arabia and Osama bin Laden. So the scene is set and all the ingredients are there for a tragedy of inconceivable proportions over the next few years. The local population has so far not supported the Wahabis’ desire for an Islamic state, but things can change. They are one of the poorest republics in the Russian Federation. 80% of young people between the ages of 18 and 35 are unemployed, and the average wage is below the Russian minimum wage. And in Moscow there is not a lot of interest in the situation.Now, the population is receiving a greeting from Moscow in the form of bombings. Moscow is supposed to be protecting the population, of course, but is instead perceived by many as the opposite of a protector, namely as the party which is bombing them. The problem is that journalists dare not travel to the place. They are kidnapped and taken hostage for cash. Nor do I think, therefore, that this Parliament is in a position to express a particularly precise opinion about this tragedy which is now unfolding. But the resolution says what needs to be said, and the most important thing is that we now promise each other to keep a sharp eye open for any means of helping, any means of contributing to stability in this unhappy part of the world.
Mr President, I have to say that this reply is entirely unsatisfactory because I am not bothered about addressing the Presidency. I do want to address the Council. At the end of the day, the current Presidency embodies the Council. It is also a question addressed to the Council and the issue is that very often meetings take place these days when we are in Strasbourg and that the press cannot come to Strasbourg. I do believe that the Council will have to realise that the extent of support for the European Union amongst its citizens is of key importance. Finland too, as one of the 15 Member States, is affected by this. So as far as I am concerned, this does not answer my question and I hope that this will be discussed in a broader context within the Council at some stage.Mr President, this bears out once again that it is crazy that we are banished to Strasbourg time and again by the same Council. Indeed, if this was not the case, this problem would not arise. I would like to ask the Finnish President to check with her colleagues in the Council and with all 15 Member States whether this could be taken on board in future?
Madam President, if the vote records correctly how my Group voted I shall not, and cannot, object to that. If your ruling is that I cannot give an explanation of vote, I accept that but with reservations.
Mr Speaker, our group supports this report. Cooperation between the EU and Russia should be continued and developed. The agreement now under discussion will provide a better framework than ever for this. The cooperation process has been slowed down by the fact that it has become fragmented and is being administered by many different authorities, especially on the Russian side. The agreement now under consideration will bring the widespread cooperation activities within the sphere of a more effective coordination.I would like to emphasise the importance of cooperation, particularly in the field of environmental and climatic research, and within the framework of information technology and telecommunications. The cooperation that takes place in these areas also reflects positively on Russia’s neighbours. Through techno-scientific cooperation we can also promote the exploitation of natural resources of North-Western Russia, which are of great importance for the future development of the economies of both Russia and the EU. At the same time, I would hope that developing techno-scientific cooperation will direct practical cooperative projects to the right places and improve, inter alia, the implementation and success of the research framework programme and projects funded through the TACIS and the Interreg programmes.Practical projects must be coordinated more efficiently; they must be increasingly target-oriented and their timetabling and scheduling improved. We must also see to it that projects that have been started are brought to a conclusion within their allocated time span. We must also insist that the Russian side adhere to their part of the project. In recent years, many projects have been implemented ineffectively, they have dragged on for an unreasonable long period, and some of them have even been abandoned. To a certain extent, this has detracted from the interest in practical cooperation with Russia. The results of research work must increasingly be utilised for improving the environmental conditions and economy of Russia. I believe that the cooperation agreement will further the implementation of these objectives.
Mr President, Commissioner, the new attitude adopted recently by the Commission on this important economic activity is striking to those of us who, in recent years, have kept an eye on tourism and its place in the Community framework.We all know that this change of heart is basically due to the close cause-effect relationship between tourism and employment. It is also due to the recognition by the European Union, since the 1997 conference on these issues, of the enormous potential, represented by tourism, for employment.In this respect the Commission communication before us today is opportune, as is the report by Mr Viceconte whom I congratulate. This report contains 34 conclusions, including 15 calls to the Commission to adopt specific measures and actions without forgetting the environmental dimension and cultural protection, particularly in outermost and island regions. It also contains four calls to the Member States which highlight the need to coordinate actions with the regional authorities and the establishment of measures favourable to tourist-oriented SMEs, particularly in the tax sector and in access to financial instruments. These would encourage the growth of employment in sectors which use labour intensively, such as the tourist sector.Finally, once this legal basis to which many of us aspire has been established so that a common tourism policy can be developed, we must be realistic and prepare a strategy on tourism and its relationship with employment, as proposed by the Commission with the support of this House. In this strategy, young people and women, training and quality and the new information society must receive preferential attention.
Mr President, the biggest single project between the EU and Russia is the creation of a common European economic area. It has been hard making that a reality, as it has been a matter of a bilateral project between the EU and Russia. At the same time both sides have been developing relations of cooperation with other states. Thus, Russia has recently concluded an agreement with Ukraine, Belarus and Kazakhstan on the formation of a common economic area. The EU has its own separately agreed arrangements with these countries.In my opinion it would be wise to try and bring together these arrangements for cooperation by establishing a broader, multilateral, economic area of cooperation, with the involvement of not only the EU and Russia but also that of Ukraine, Belarus and Kazakhstan as well as any other of the Newly Industrialised Countries willing to participate. Where appropriate the European Economic Area, which was established between the EU and EFTA, could be taken as a model. An arrangement agreed along such lines would be well suited to the EU’s evolving broader European policy.The EU’s new, broader European policy also offers opportunities for the development of cross-border cooperation where the EU shares a border with Russia. The Commission proposal for a new financial instrument for neighbourly cooperation will eliminate those problems which we have had harmonising internal and external financial schemes. The Russian authorities must familiarise themselves with the new financing scheme in good time so that we can be sure it will work right from the start.Finally, my greetings go to the Russian Government. Can you ensure that human rights are implemented in Chechnya and do your very best to seek a peaceful solution to this region’s problems!
In Seville, the Heads of Government allowed themselves to be somewhat carried away by the intoxicating spirit of flamenco. This is the only way I can explain their decision. The final declaration referred to ‘an’ accession treaty for all candidate countries, while in Laeken, treaties were still mentioned in the plural. For the ratification, this means that national parliaments have to like it or lump it. The universally adulated individual assessment suddenly does not apply to national people’s representatives. The Commission and the European Council are in this way taking a further swipe at democracy. The precedent of the previous limited enlargements is not relevant. After all, there are now no fewer than ten countries that have to meet a whole host of new requirements. I would appreciate an explanation from the President.By abolishing the Development Council, fighting poverty has become subordinate to foreign policy. This is precisely the wrong message we are sending to the developing world. It appears that the gentlemen have also choked on the paella of foreign policy.IN THE CHAIR: MR DAVID MARTINVice-president
Madam President, Commissioner, I welcome the Commission’s statement here today, which is actually more balanced than our draft resolution. I also note with interest that the Commissioner made specific reference to the RDR, which is the Liberals’ sister party in Côte d’Ivoire. We have attempted to maintain contact with the party, but recently, of course, that has not been possible.I am very disappointed at the part the EU has played in this matter. In April, I asked the Council what measures were being taken to aid the functioning of the National Reconciliation Forum and what measures were envisaged for monitoring the elections in June 2002. At that time, it was said that the EU certainly was concerned about the fact that the 2000 elections were characterised by violence, infringements of human rights and exclusion of some major political parties, and talks were held pursuant to Article 96 of the Cotonou Agreement. The talks were, however, brought to a close in June 2001, and it was not thought possible to make any particularly significant contribution to the supervision of the elections, or to provide support, or to play an active role.Many people in the region are suffering because we remained passive and did not take a more active role. This is a shame, because this is an area in which the EU could have been active, and we were aware of these issues. We are concerned about the troubles spreading out in the region. As usual, there is a great risk that women and children will bear the brunt of the suffering. We know that the position of children in Côte d’Ivoire is not as it should be.The Liberals will not support item 5 of the resolution, and my colleague Mr Van Hecke will go into more detail on this matter.
Mr President, quite a few problems affecting Lebanon have been mentioned in this Chamber, in spite of there also being many positive signs in that country. We in the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party wish to highlight a number of these problems.The situation in Lebanon is very uncertain and complicated, and the Syrian presence in the country means that the question may sometimes arise as to whether Lebanon is a completely independent state. There are extensive infringements of human rights. I only have to mention the 17 000 missing Lebanese, the restricted freedom of expression, the violence against demonstrating students, the death penalty and, of course, the situation concerning the Palestinian refugees, referred to by quite a few fellow MEPs. These refugees too must come to enjoy the positive advantages that the association agreement can provide.The  Group has tabled a number of amendments concerning, for example, the 200 Lebanese held prisoner in Syria. There are also a dozen in Israel. The situation concerning these refugees must be clarified. Lebanon must also ratify the Geneva Convention. We are very concerned about the situation of the refugees.Trade and the exchange of goods are nonetheless to be welcomed. In the long term, they promote democracy and development – political, economic and social. The association agreements are also an important part of the Barcelona Process. We are therefore voting in favour of this association agreement in the hope that it will lead to development in Lebanon. We nonetheless feel a certain hesitation in doing so because Lebanon is far from being a democracy, and there are flagrant breaches of human rights. We also feel a certain unease, or frustration rather, at the fact that there is always talk about human rights clauses that can be applied if a country infringes an association agreement with the EU. These clauses are nothing other than a resounding shot in the dark. I really want to appeal to Commissioner Patten to ensure that mechanisms can be developed whereby, in the event of breaches of human rights that we know are being committed, Article 2 of the association agreement can be invoked and applied in a meaningful way.
Madam President, I wish to raise a point of order.I wish, in actual fact, to complain about the way in which we deal with the legislative procedure in the European Parliament. I tabled four amendments, which were voted down in the committee. That is perfectly acceptable, and I also have a reservation; but the deadline for amendments for this sitting expired this evening at 7 p.m. Quite a few of my fellow MEPs who might have contemplated endorsing these amendments have not arrived here in time because of the problems we always have when we are to make our way to Strasbourg. I think that the deadline might perfectly well have been extended to tomorrow evening or tomorrow afternoon so that there would have been an opportunity to deal with this matter.I find this unacceptable, and I hope that you can see to it that matters are better organised in future.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office, President-designate of the Commission and nominee Commissioners, you are very welcome to our Chamber this afternoon and we look forward to our hearings and our various communications over the next few weeks and eventually months and years.I want to make a few things clear here at the outset. Firstly, the  Group in this House comes here in terms of a European vocation. We will not judge Commissioners on the basis of the national preferences of one or other party or group inside this Chamber.(Applause)I wish to say, Madame President, in respect of your helpful suggestion this morning that we should incorporate, as we prepare for the hearings, an understanding of the work and insight of the Committee of Experts that we, as an Institution, must say to the Experts ‘speed up what you do and deliver it in time'. If necessary, 'speed up the report' but by no means should we slow down the process of hearings as anticipated.(Applause)My group's essential and fundamental starting point in this debate is very clear. The outgoing Commission resigned last March and since I can hardly explain to myself why the rump part of that Commission is still there, how can we expect the citizens of Europe to understand that fact? It is therefore our overwhelming duty in this House to decouple Europe from this institutional embarrassment at the earliest available date and the only means to do that is to take the available Commission – and I do not prejudge how the hearings may go – and do our utmost to make sure that it takes up office at the earliest available date. By this means we should begin to decouple ourselves from what has been a very difficult, but useful experience, but one that remains, unfinished as it is, deeply embarrassing and complicated as we have seen recently by the deplorable choices of Dr Martin Bangemann.Could I say also in regard to the hearings process which will be in two parts, i.e. written and oral, that we in thewill want to know from each of the candidate Commissioners: ‘What is the perspective that you will bring to Europe for Europe?' This will be important to us. We want to be able to talk to you and engage with you on the question of suitability for the portfolios and to understand the capacities that you bring to this prospect. We want to ask you about your willingness, your personal willingness, to accept that you are accountable and responsible to the public of Europe in whatever you do with your President and before this House and in clear and full public understanding that this is the public forum for European democracy to which you are accountable and have a public responsibility. I wish to say on behalf of my group that when the IGC comes we will continue to press for Treaty reform on the question of individual accountability. We recognise that within the current constraints Professor Prodi is taking some steps to improve the dreadful situation of the past, but we may need Professor Prodi to take some more steps.We propose that the hearings should be tough because we have learned from the lessons of the past five years that it is better to be tough at the outset than to regret it later. Our hearings also will be fair. There is one point I would ask the Commission President-designate to respond to. We have been so busy reconstituting ourselves we have not yet had the capacity to do our homework and our research, so if the hearings bring to light issues of substance and public concern about which we as yet know nothing, we in this House would have a duty to Europe to act and we will act – certainly, my group will.If such difficulties present themselves, I would make an appeal to you as President-designate of the Commission, Professor Prodi, please to make sure that difficulties do not become crises. We need a respectful dialogue between our institutions. This Parliament has matured in recent months and we have learned one basic lesson for the years ahead: we are no longer the junior partner in the European political institutions. We do not claim the status of ‘primus inter pares' but we expect and demand to be treated as an equal among equals in the European institutions.(Applause)Madam President, in September we have the hearings and, as I said, I do not wish to anticipate how they should proceed, but my group's strong preference is that in September – subject always to the reservations that we must see what emerges – we should take a decision and rid ourselves of a sense of crisis. If we have to have some difficult debates, for God's sake, let us have them in September and let us have it out in September so that we do not have some form of institutional guerilla warfare right through to December or January. Let us do the business early and let us do the business well!A final comment, Madam President; before he had this high office thrust on him some months ago, rather I think to his surprise, Mr Prodi had sought to contest the European elections in Italy. He had chosen as the symbol of his party the donkey. Well, the donkey has various traits – one of which we know is stubbornness. I wish to say to Professor Prodi, if he uses his stubbornness in this Parliament as a reliable partner for Europe, that is the kind of stubbornness we welcome. And if he uses his stubbornness to refuse to dialogue with us, if we have difficulties in the hearings, that is a stubbornness we will oppose.That is the message of my group today. We want to work with you as a reliable partner for Europe now and in the future and that requires respectful dialogue. We will give it. We believe in a strong Europe, we believe in a strong Commission and we believe we should be natural allies – let us work to that end.(Applause)
Madam President, I want to begin by expressing my deep sympathy with those families who have been affected by the latest bloody events that have taken place in the area we are talking about. Like others, I also want to express my concern about what is happening and, at the same time, say that, whenever this area is talked about, the impression given is really one of crossing a minefield and of its not taking very much to provoke a reaction, almost no matter what is said. I too, however, must urge both the Commissioner and Mr Solana to do everything in their powers to press for the successful achievement of a ceasefire agreement, so that the bloody events in question might be brought to an end. If that does not happen, a chain reaction might be triggered, in other countries too, which might prove to be uncontrollable. A minor example of this is the events that took place yesterday in Copenhagen when a peaceful demonstration turned violent. Happily, no-one was killed as a result, but unfortunately a number of people were injured. What we in the EU must and shall do, therefore, is continue talking in terms of negotiation, negotiation and, again, negotiation, so that those windows which are now open do not close before we have achieved a result. A peace agreement is needed now. Otherwise, there is a strong possibility of things ending in disaster.
Mr President, as Romano Prodi said in this debate last year, in Europe we are all minorities. Today Commissioner Verheugen said that to live in Europe is to live with compromises. To my mind these are crucial to European values. It is for the vast majority to make compromises for the minority. Therefore I was unhappy when I learnt that the European Parliament rapporteur on Slovakia had accused the Hungarian minority parties of setting ultimatums and using methods that are used only in wartime when they made their future in the government dependent on an administrative reform.The rapporteur's remark seems very unfair and does not take note of the different steps in the development of self-government at different levels, nor is it consistent with the views expressed by the Prime Minister of Slovakia. The Hungarian political representatives have, in spite of the adoption of new administrative borders that were promoted by nationalist and left-wing parties and deprived them of chances of adequate political representation, signalled that they are ready to continue in the government but that their future participation is dependent on giving real content to the administrative laws. That is what we are asking for in Resolution No 39. We should refrain from unfounded accusations.
Mr President, I should like to state that I find it quite unacceptable that fraud involving EU funds should amount to something like two billion a year and even be increasing in some areas. At the same time, it must however be acknowledged that this is basically a national problem in as much as approximately 80% of the EU budget is administered by the national authorities. I think that, in this area, the Member States display a fundamental unwillingness to take the necessary initiatives to deal specifically with fraud involving EU funds.This is borne out by, for example, the Commission’s statement that, out of every four cases that are brought to light by OLAF and that should lead to the national authorities’ being prosecuted, only one has legal consequences.I find all this unacceptable. It does not however lead me unconditionally to endorse Mrs Theato’s conclusion that the optimum and only solution lies in setting up another institution: a common European Prosecutor in the form of a body taking precedence over national legislation and demanding extensive harmonisation in areas in which the Member States traditionally have different legal traditions and legal concepts. I need only mention harmonisation of penal legislation, production of evidence, penalties and the rules governing legal processes.If we were to implement this model here and now, I would anticipate major conflicts of authority between the common European Prosecutor and the national authorities, as well as some overlap in relation to other Community initiatives such as Eurojust, OLAF and Europol, initiatives that, in view of the short period of time they have been up and running, should at all events be given more time to produce results in areas including that of fraud involving EU funds.That having been said, however, I do in actual fact support in principle the idea of setting up this authority and embedding it in the treaty. I just do not think that the time is ripe for such a drastic harmonisation of fundamental areas of legal policy, as proposed by Mrs Theato.I believe instead that a European Prosecutor’s office should be developed gradually and within the framework of strengthened Eurojust cooperation. That is, moreover, the model mentioned by Mrs Theato in Article 22, Paragraph 2 of her report.In general, it is these considerations that form the basis of the amendments to the report tabled by the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by saying how pleased I am that these two global forums have run their course without violence; we have experienced rather different ones. I would like to put forward a few points on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party.The first is that there is still large-scale and persistent poverty in the developing countries despite all the developed world's pledges to halve poverty by 2015, and our good progress towards this has come to an end. As I see it, this is another area where there is a major role for the private sector. This is not about the major international concerns always transferring production to the countries where wages are lowest in order to reduce their production costs. This is about their consciously seeking partnerships with local firms and organisations. By investing in local trade and industry, by making sure that they make good social provision for their employees and that men and women receive fair wages, they can contribute a great deal to the fight against poverty. Corporate Social Responsibility is not only a splendid expression but also of fundamental importance. This must of course be exercised on a completely voluntary basis and from the bottom up. So I call on business too to be as socially responsible as possible when making investments. The ideal is that business at a national level should implement this in all its policy areas.A second point that I want to make has to do with the importance of education in combating poverty. Here, too, the private sector can do its bit. By deliberately using their own know-how to support local vocational training, this sector can give the people a better education. In the long term, this will also be of benefit to their own personnel policy. In all this, I do not, of course, want to play down the part played by the developing countries' national governments and by the international community. Human rights must always be nurtured and promoted. These include good working conditions, along with democracy and good management, for which the developing countries' national governments are themselves responsible; they must take action themselves, even though the developed countries can give them support. Through constructive policies in their own countries, in which the environment and freedom of access for everyone to all the basic amenities, such as water and land, have a major part to play, they too can contribute to spreading prosperity on a fair basis.It is to be hoped that the outcome of both forums will be that these points are taken on board, and then we will perhaps have a better chance of reducing poverty, if not by 50% by 2015, then by an amount not too far from that objective.
Mr President, has peace really returned to Côte d’Ivoire or does it only seem that way? Gbagbo has provisionally been recognised as president on the basis of elections from which his most important opponent was excluded. If the parliamentary elections in December do not proceed in a fair manner then the unrest will undoubtedly flare up again. After all, the violence of recent times has left the people with deep scars. If there is even the slightest political lapse their anger will take hold again. It is therefore absolutely essential that the parliamentary elections due to take place in December, proceed fairly, and needless to say, exclusion for reasons of ethnicity is absolutely out of the question. Côte d’Ivoire will only be able to regain its stability if the new rulers are prepared to engage in power-sharing. It is also impossible to envisage lasting peace in the country without religious and ethnic tolerance. The political, military and religious leaders must pull out all the stops to make national reconciliation possible. What is needed is a constitution which guarantees the rights of the citizens and the political parties and rules out abuse of power. It is also vital for relations with the neighbouring countries, especially Burkina Faso, to be restored. We as a European Union, must be prepared to continue to provide assistance, but this will only be possible if the country is run properly and democratisation really takes shape. The leaders have now been given a new chance and let us hope they seize it. Côte d’Ivoire could become a role model and take the lead in the region. But this will only be feasible if everyone takes responsibility and peace is restored for good.
Like previous speakers, I should like to thank our rapporteur, Mr Lisi, for the quality of his work on a highly technical and particularly sensitive subject for our citizens.Originally, Seveso III was supposed to be no more than what I would call an improved version of Seveso II. Following the tragedies of Baia Mare and Enschede, the revision of this directive was chiefly intended to broaden its scope to cover mining activities, and to reduce the thresholds for pyrotechnical substances.On 21 September last year, the position changed following the catastrophe at the AZF factory in Toulouse, a very cruel reminder of the reality of the situation. In order to be effective, a law must, above all, be correctly applied. That was obviously not the case in Toulouse. No hazard study had been carried out in the building in which the explosion occurred. Nor had any reassessment been made – since 1995 – of the ammonium nitrates produced and stored, which is why, without calling into question the excellent provisions regarding risk assessment already laid down in Seveso II, I am in favour of making the obligations to be met by the operator more stringent. Article 9 is the backbone of this directive. We therefore need to take action, as it were, ‘upstream’, so that the safety report is drawn up with the greatest transparency and is updated as soon as any significant change occurs on the industrial site.On this subject, thewelcomes the adoption, at the committee stage, of Amendments Nos 17 to 19.Turning to the safety report, and, more broadly, to another crucial aspect of this revision, the control of urban sprawl around industrial sites, I see that Member States have methods of calculating hazard limits which are very different, and in some cases contradictory, and that is why we welcome the vote in committee to adopt Amendment No 20, which seeks to implement, eventually, a single European method of calculation. As a Commission representative said to members of the French Parliament after the Toulouse disaster, a process which seeks to harmonise approaches without harmonising basic philosophies will never succeed.That is why, and also for the sake of consistency, the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party is also in favour of Amendment No 55 on this subject. Also for safety reasons, we believe it is essential, as stipulated in Amendment No 39, to lower the thresholds for the fourth category of ammonium nitrates, those consisting of rejects, similar to the substances that exploded in the warehouse at the AZF factory.Finally, Madam President, the competent national authorities must ensure compliance with the on-site obligations, which are to be reinforced here, by means of Seveso III.We must never relax our campaign against the trivialisation of risks in certain industries. That must be our priority, in memory of the 52 victims of Toulouse and Enschede, as well as all the other victims.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we would firstly like to congratulate our colleague Mr Brok on his initiative in promoting this debate before the meeting in Marseilles begins.As Commissioner Patten indicated, it is clear that the lack of consolidated peace in the Middle East is distorting the whole process that was outlined at the Euro-Mediterranean Conference and, in particular, the appropriate and correct application of the MEDA funds.The Group of the Europe Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party obviously supports the Commission’s actions in favour of a Mediterranean policy, as outlined five years ago in Barcelona, and we want it to be consolidated. A few days ago, in Barcelona, at various meetings of the Círculo de Economía, the Secretary General of the Council, Mr Solana, told us that the priorities for European external activity are firstly with our neighbours, and our closest neighbours are the Mediterraneans. And we are not forgetting that the source of potential conflicts that we have in the medium term, due to demographic change, inequality of income, changing expectations and cultural differences, is also there. Our priority must therefore be to ensure the peace and security of the European Union in the Mediterranean and we have to make every possible effort to achieve this cooperation and to ensure that the funds allocated are used efficiently, according to what we might call the selfish generosity of the European Union. We have to be generous towards the Mediterranean, but from a selfish point of view, which is to safeguard the stability that we need so much for the people of the European Union, and for European society.
Mr President, with the enlargement of the European Union the border we share with Russia will lengthen and we will have several new neighbours. Our new neighbours are also likely to apply for membership and enlargement will continue.It is very important for us all that our external border is both open and secure. No new barriers must be put up in Europe that would be a hindrance to relations and cooperation with other countries. We also have to level out the economic and social differences that exist between the Member States and our neighbouring countries. This is especially important for Member States situated on external borders.As enlargement proceeds we have to establish a new policy for a larger Europe, one that incorporates both bilateral relations with our present and future neighbours and developments in multilateral cooperation, for example, within the context of the Council of Europe and the EEC.This morning some Members of the European Parliament were trying to lecture Members of Parliament of the new Member States, saying they must be prepared to give up their own country’s right of self-determination and accept that the Union will develop into a supranational federation. I do not agree with such points of view. An enlarging Union must be a democratic confederation of independent states led by a Council of Ministers that represents the Member States.
Mr President, an important step in the completion of the internal market is, of course, the Statute for a European Company. I shall devote my one minute of speaking time to this topic. Finally, after 20 years of discussion, we have an agreement in the form of a regulation due to enter into force in 2004. Parliament has given it its full backing and has even waived its codecision powers in order to save time. It now appears that our European businesses show little enthusiasm for the European Company. According to some reports, there are few, if any, businesses interested in changing into a European Company, the reasons being that it would be too time-consuming, with no immediate benefits and, above all, no uniform fiscal regime. Are the Council and the Commission aware of this lack of interest and of the risk that setting up a European Company is threatening to become a hollow exercise? Is there a certain strategy in order to encourage our businesses to become European companies?
Mr President, I understand why Commissioner Verheugen feels cheated on the 1999 deal that the Greek Cypriot Government would facilitate a settlement if accession were unconditional.My own view in 1999 that accession was not feasible without unification. We should have kept both sides guessing in order to keep up the pressure. I was criticised for that view and accused of bias. However, it looks as if communication with Turkish Cypriots – convincing them that Europe is friendly and welcoming – has paid off. That kind of effort has also been undertaken by the European Commission in the face of legalistic objections.The EU institutions have perhaps let down the Greek Cypriots by failing sufficiently to challenge their version of history or to encourage them to realise that a compromise would be necessary – not a return to the pre-1974 situation. This House bears some of that responsibility. Mr Poos calls on Cypriots to leave nationalism at the door. I welcome that call. I just wish it had been made consistently on both communities over the last five years.If indeed the north votes 'yes' and the south 'no', the status quo cannot endure and a new assessment will be needed. Ways will have to be found to bring Turkish Cypriots out of their political and economic isolation. For instance, we must drop the requirement for Cypriots to have Greek mother tongue in order to be officials in the EU institutions. There must be a European Parliament delegation to Northern Cyprus.I am getting ahead of myself. I still hope very much that Greek Cypriots, as well as Turkish Cypriots, will vote 'yes' on Saturday. The World Bank predicts a huge growth spurt of 5% per annum if they do so.
Mr President, I should also like to thank the rapporteur for a sound and well-balanced report which expresses the greater number of common interests there are between the EU and China today. China is in all respects becoming a more and more important player on the world stage, and that also applies in the combating of terrorism where we must appreciate China’s active support for this serious struggle. The Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party wants to see a democratic China that respects the principles of a free market, human rights and the rule of law. We also want China to fulfil the Copenhagen Criteria. There is no reason why these criteria should be confined to applying only within the borders of Europe. TheGroup has tabled a list of amendments, all designed to tighten up the report a little. The most important issue for us in this context is the One China policy. We are all familiar with this, and we know why it exists. As liberals, we are not proud of the One China policy, because it impedes development in a country that respects democracy, social pluralism and constitutional principles – namely Taiwan. TheGroup believes that the will and desires of Taiwan must be respected and that the China policy is an obstacle to their being so. We also believe that the European Parliament is the right place from which to send this signal, and it is therefore up to our governments to follow our advice. Last year, the President of Taiwan, Chen Shui-bian, was awarded the Liberal International Freedom Prize. Unfortunately, no EU country would also give him a visa so that he himself could collect it. His wife instead collected it, here in this House in November. Nonetheless, we should like to express our dissatisfaction with the fact that the Member States do not comply with their obligations to respect the President of Taiwan’s basic right to travel freely. The Olympic Games are to be held in China in 2008. That decision has been taken and is not to be altered, but let us take this opportunity to demand that China use this opportunity to demonstrate that it will comply with all the international standards and conventions relating to human rights. Recently, China has employed a practice whereby children born in mainland China are separated from their parents in Hong Kong. That is an infringement of human rights that is very much to be censured, and we will therefore demand that the Chinese Government stop this practice immediately and begin reunifying families so that parents in Hong Kong can be together with their children. I would again thank Mr Graça Moura for a thorough and well-considered report which aims at a more effective EU policy on the China issue.
Mr President, Parliament used the enhanced Hughes procedure to approach this proposal for a regulation. In other words, the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy has collaborated very closely with the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market. I would like to give my heartiest thanks to my fellow Member, Mrs McCarthy, who was the draftsperson of the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market and with whom I was able to work in a particularly pleasant and, I hope, effective manner. I would also like to thank the services of Parliament and the Commission, which gave me a great deal of assistance in this matter.The proposal for a regulation provides for the implementation of the Internet Top Level Domain ‘.EU’, and the European Union should thus assert its visibility in cyberspace as an individual site but also one that complements the national domains, and transpose the trusted environment which the EU has created via the internal market onto the Internet.Generally speaking, I think I can say that the philosophy of the proposal for a Commission regulation has not been damaged by the amendments proposed by the Committee on Industry and the Committee on Legal Affairs. Mr President, I believe that the parliamentary committees are proposing amendments that will make the text of the regulation more accurate and clear in relation to the demands of businesses using these services and service providers.As for the general principles, the amendments highlight the desired objective of creating the image of a high-quality brand for the ‘.EU’ domain and they confirm the principles of non-interference, self-management and self-regulation for Internet management, which Parliament regularly advocates. They also make it compulsory for the Registry to manage the ‘.EU’ domain name in the general interest, to observe transparent and non-discriminatory procedures and to conform to best national practices.The amendments also stipulate that when the regulation is implemented, the principles relating to privacy and the protection of personal data must be taken into account. More specifically, the Parliamentary committees are proposing that the scope of the regulation should be limited to the European Community. In order to designate the registry, a call for expression of interest will be published in the Official Journal of the European Communities; and the difference between registry and registration office, as well as their independence from one another, will be highlighted.As a general rule, registrations will be done on a first-come, first-served basis, but a so-called ‘sunrise’ clause has nonetheless been put in place to enable the temporary protection of the rights of former right holders. A policy and procedure designed to revoke rather than prevent speculative and abusive registration of domain names will be adopted; lastly, the Member States will be able to prevent the registration under the ‘.EU’ domain of domain names containing established geographical, geopolitical or historical concepts which impact upon the territorial organisation of a Member State.The guidelines approved by the Council on 27 June 2001 – in other words, very recently – do not appear to be very far removed from the text that I am proposing for Parliament to vote on, so it should be possible to overcome the difficulties between the institutions. Admittedly, there are still some difficult discussions ahead, but I feel that we should be optimistic and believe that a common position can be established in the coming months.In conclusion, Mr President, I would therefore ask Parliament and you yourself to adopt the report with the proposed amendments.
As we read in the explanatory statement, ‘The focus on silicone-gel implants since the 1990s has led to many different epidemiological studies that have consistently showed no evidence of serious risk for major diseases’.Over recent years cosmetic surgery has made considerable progress and the techniques used have reached a more than satisfactory level of safety. However, if the danger warnings are increased and consumers are overprotected, doctors could become disheartened.Let us take the example of Caesareans. They have dramatically increased, because women are gripped by the idea of a lower risk. Therefore it is their trust in the medical profession that is called into question. While we need to protect patients, we also need to preserve the service providers by placing a degree of trust in them.
Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to start by saying that I am pleased with the outcome of the Special UN Conference on ‘Women 2000: gender equality, development and peace’. In my opinion, all credit for this follow-on from Beijing +5, where the implementation of the action plans was discussed, should go to the NGOs, but also to the European Parliament, which was represented by five strong women, and naturally the European Commission, which, in the form of Mrs Diamontopoulou, was 100% committed to this conference. Progress has been made, that is for sure, as has already been mentioned by previous speakers. The distribution in care, actions against trafficking in women and empowerment of women are important issues to me. I am pleased that the participating countries still subscribe to the Beijing Declaration and the action plan. It is nonetheless unfortunate that only eight countries in the world have managed to meet the essential obligations which follow on from these with regard to equality in education, paid work and a minimum representation of 30% in national parliaments. It naturally gives me pleasure to be able to say that the Netherlands is one of them, although I am not entirely satisfied with its emancipation policy, or rather, the lack of it, and that Germany, the Scandinavian countries and South Africa too belong to the eight.But back to Europe. In my opinion, it is downright alarming that it is precisely the candidate countries which have shown a decline in the number of female employees and the number of girls registered in education. This development merits particular attention from us in the European Parliament. Not only is education the best way to obtain gender equality, it is also the quickest way and the only way if we want to ensure that our children and grandchildren will not still be grappling with these issues.We should point out to the acceding countries that they need to improve this situation. The other point I wanted to raise is the opposition from the Islamic and Asian countries with regard to women’s rights, in connection with which they refer to the sharia. I find it downright disgraceful that we women cannot join forces across the world. I would ask you to give attention to this. It is not just the Islamic and Asian countries to which this applies, but also Poland, for example.Finally, I would like to ask you, as I do not have any hard facts at my disposal regarding the acceding countries, whether it would be possible to analyse the status quo in the candidate countries, ideally as soon as possible so that we can assess whether the situation there has improved. Finally, I would call for the NGOs, in particular, to be given a key role, because it is they who are promoting awareness, and this is something which needs to be done not only among women, but also among men. They need to be involved in this process.At the end of the day, we are relying on the political will of society as a whole to commit itself to a cause which is related to democracy and human rights and which transcends all cultures and religions.
Madam President, France’s ban on animal meal in feedingstuffs came far too late. In this situation, the only way to break the cycle of BSE infection is to place a complete ban on the use of animal meal as feed. As long as it cannot be guaranteed that meal from deceased animals is not being mixed with animal meal that is free from infection, then all animal meal must be banned for use as feed.One must not be wise after the event, but I find it extremely difficult in this debate not to think back to the beginning of the Nineties when, as the Swedish person responsible for the agricultural negotiations, I was forced to negotiate an opt-out because we in Sweden had a ban on the use of meal from deceased animals. We only just managed to obtain such an opt-out, but we managed it, even if we were laughed at to some extent and told that there was, of course, no danger. Now, no one is laughing any more. That was, in actual fact, how it was, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. You mentioned, of course, that a faulty production method was to blame and that it is for this reason that animal meal has been banned in France. That was why we, back home in Sweden, banned it a long time ago. It appeared that faulty is precisely what these production methods are, and they must be opposed from the beginning.I want to emphasise a further couple of points. In the resolution that I hope will be voted through tomorrow, there are some very important points. The first is that it must be possible to trace every raw material in every type of food back through the chain. In a situation such as that which has now arisen in France, and also earlier on in many other countries, it is important to be able to tell consumers where the products they buy come from and how their origins can be traced. This is an extremely important requirement, especially where the specific issue of BSE is concerned.Secondly, it is important to emphasise – and this is not some new idea – that anyone who consciously allows an animal that is sick, or that is suspected of being sick, to enter the food or feed chain is committing a criminal offence. Every food producer must be aware of this fact. Clearly, many people suffer, of course, in this situation, especially many farmers. In certain circumstances, it is necessary to slaughter the entire stock of animals, which must come as a real blow. It is also important to remember that the national systems for eradicating this terrible infection must include measures which properly compensate farmers for the financial losses they suffer in this connection. On this subject, I want to point out that those of us in the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party have tabled an amendment I hope will be voted through.In conclusion, I just want to thank Commissioner Byrne, who I think is doing a good job on this issue.
Mr President, Commissioner, our group has evaluated both reports with positive results and would, in particular, like to emphasise the fact that we have all focused on the need to expand the programme's scope with a series of amendments – which, in actual fact, have led to another survey on discrimination – intended to guarantee equal treatment to all people, irrespective of their sex, race, ethnic origin, religion, personal convictions, age or sexual orientation.The Group of the European Liberal Democrat and Reform Party has assessed all this with positive results, particularly focusing on the activity of Parliament, which insisted, in addition and above all, on preventive action as well as good practice. We felt that the objectives relating to enhancing in-depth understanding of the issue and its new forms, scale and development and, most importantly, action supporting those who have to implement these good practices, were entirely convincing. Yet we were even more impressed by fact that, at the end of the report, provision was made for an evaluation of the outcome of the processes and programmes, for this is also a guarantee of fairness, impartiality and transparency.I would especially like to focus on the opportunities provided for the Member States, who have to concentrate on high-quality actions, to work autonomously. This means that, for the first time, a different line is being adopted: we are not doling out funding left, right and centre but evaluating the quality of the operations and insisting on high quality; the operations themselves must then be monitored and their results published. I feel that this is a highly positive and constructive process, considering, also, that the results can be made available to the public and used to improve the quality of subsequent actions.I too would like to touch on the issue of exception made for religious organisations. I am pleased that it has been raised in this House. In effect, I feel that this is a mistake and that the exemption warrants discussion and reflection. I would just like to highlight a point once and for all. In my country, Italy, a teacher colleague of mine who was Catholic by religion but taught in a State school was dismissed because she became pregnant, she did not have an abortion and she was not married.Given that such a thing is possible, I would ask you whether it would have happened if the religious authorities were not endowed with this discretionary power? I would add that, paradoxically, if this teacher had had an abortion, no-one would have realised anything and she would not have lost her job. Instead, having shown respect for the sanctity of life and her right to motherhood, she was dismissed, a victim of discrimination. This, in my opinion, is disgraceful. If she had been a man, I may add, she would not have had to worry about what she did in her private life since a way has not yet been found to make men pregnant!
Mr President, I wanted, first of all, on a brief point of order, to comment on the application of Rule 112, reminding Parliament that this is a procedure which is to be applied strictly in exceptional circumstances. Quite frankly, I am amazed that the Council should invoke Rule 112 for a matter of this nature, which we would have been able to address in a few week’s time anyway without it making any difference to the measure, which, as you are aware, has already been in force since 1 January.In this regard, I would point out to the House that, irrespective of the position it expresses, last night, at an extraordinary meeting held at the request of the Council, the competent committee did not reach the quorum necessary to vote. The coordinators present were, in fact, surprised at the application of Rule 112 precisely because – as I said before, Mr President – it is, in my opinion, an instrument which is to be used in exceptional circumstances. We are therefore stunned that the urgent procedure has been employed for what is, I reiterate, a measure whose content is of very minor import.
Mr President, since the last time we discussed the budget in this House, significant progress has been made, particularly following the joint meeting between the Council, Commission and Parliament on 24 November. Finally, an agreement has been reached about the funding of Iraq’s reconstruction. From the 2004 budget, EUR 95 million will be taken from the flexibility reserve and EUR 65 million from Heading 4. The fact that it was Heading 4 means that cuts will need to be made in other lines and that the lines by which some groups set great store have lost some of their importance. However, I welcome the fact that there is an agreement.We have also reached agreement about the increase in payment appropriations: 2.3% compared to the 2003 budget. This means that, irrespective of whether 15 or 25 Member States are involved, in 2004, we will in all probability spend 0.98% of the gross national income. I am not certain whether everyone knows this, but that is the lowest percentage since 1990, and as far as that is concerned, we fully comply with the objectives which we set ourselves at the beginning of this year in the directives for the 2004 budget, namely to draft an economical budget.There is also agreement about common foreign and security policy. A Police Mission can be sent to the Former Yugoslavian Republic of Macedonia. We hope that with this agreement, the provision of information to the Parliament will also improve, for that is of extreme importance to us.All praise goes to Mr Böge and Mr Colom i Naval for the agreement on the programmes under codecision, particularly the programmes following enlargement. That is, in my view, quite a feat because in future, it will considerably simplify decision-making and budgeting. The same compliment can be made to Mrs Dührkop Dührkop and to the rapporteurs of the various specialised committees for the agreement that has been reached on subsidies.Finally, there is the result of the most recent conciliation meeting. Not only will we save about one billion on agricultural expenditure but the Council of Ministers has also adopted Parliament’s priorities in agriculture.Enlargement was the single most important element in the 2004 Budget, and I am therefore delighted to be able to announce that Parliament has agreed to the majority of applications of new Commission posts. We will put 25 posts in reserve. We want the Commission to comply with certain other conditions, but I think that the Commission has received most of the posts it had requested.An important initiative has also been taken in the area of small and medium-sized enterprises. In our opinion, the economy in the new countries and in the old Member States can ideally be boosted by increasing the opportunities for small and medium-size businesses. This is also something which we managed to secure via this budget: considerably more credit has been made available.As to agencies, with the entry into force of the new Financial Regulation, Parliament should also gain a better insight into personnel policy of these agencies. This year is still a transitional year, but in the next few years, Parliament will be paying a great deal of attention to this.As far as reserves are concerned, according to the result, at least of the votes in the Committee on Budgets, the reserves will be maintained for the NGOs, Eurostat and for Afghanistan.At the beginning of this year, Parliament declared itself in favour of a budget for 25 Member States. What we will be voting on this week, is a budget of 15 Member States. The groundwork has been done, though, and has been done well, so that we, on the basis of the agreements of Copenhagen and on the basis of Parliament’s first reading, can submit a sound, amended budget, or approve one for the ten new Member States.With regard to the 2005 Budget, with a reduction of the financial perspectives, the 2005 Budget will become considerably more difficult than that of 2004. I would therefore wish Mr Garriga Polledo and my successor every success.Finally, as is known, we in this Parliament have an excellent secretariat for the Committee on Budgets, without whose efficiency, it is obvious, the work here in the Parliament would not have been completed. I should like to express my warm thanks for this. I should also like to thank all the group coordinators. In my view, cooperation was excellent and I am very grateful for this. Cooperation with the Italian Presidency has also been very successful, for which my thanks. Finally, I should like to say special thanks to two people: the first of whom is the chairman of the Committee on Budgets. I have valued him for years, but I have now also seen him in action close-by. I can only express my admiration for the way in which he has done things. My thanks for this. Finally, I am also indebted to my personal assistants, particularly Mr Marko van Workum.(Applause)
Mr President, Liberals in this House expected rather more from the presidency of a country with a proud European tradition. In six short months, the presidency has conspired to undermine the Stability Pact, has shown contempt for the European Union's policy towards Russia and offended Canada.The President-in-Office has treated us to a 40-minute catalogue of the achievements of his term of office. Yet it is hard to escape the conclusion that this presidency and IGC have been a personal failure for the President of the European Council. The 'piece of paper' in Mr Berlusconi's pocket turned out to be a gelato-stained napkin with a few bad jokes scribbled on it. The President came to the IGC poorly prepared; he ignored the warnings of this House that holding back compromise proposals would produce this kind of stalemate.(Applause)While the Americans were digging Saddam Hussein out of a hole in Iraq to global acclaim, our leaders were digging themselves into a hole in Brussels.A successful summit needed two things: political will on the part of the major countries, and skilful diplomatic leadership. It showed neither.This IGC was not fated to fail  it chose to. Five countries walked away from an agreement which everybody needed but none of them wanted enough.Yes, a delayed deal is better than a bad one. But the problem with postponing a decision by kicking it into the long grass is that you might not find it again. Especially with a crowded agenda ahead which includes negotiations on the next financial perspectives, talks on Turkish membership and elections in Spain, Britain and Italy.So after a short post-mortem, the IGC must resume and must conclude its work under the Irish presidency. The Irish have Mr Ahern, one of Europe's most seasoned negotiators, and Mr Cox, the President of our own House, whose joy at the Charlemagne Prize we share. It may be possible to relaunch the European Union. Our first Constitution deserves public debate and endorsement, and that requires a Treaty before the European elections in June 2004.I would like to underline the extent of the concern felt by Liberal Democrats and Reformers in this House and beyond and our feeling that the actions of the larger Member States are plunging the European Union into a crisis which could endanger the democratic nature of our Union.The summit conclusions are also a disappointment to us. There is nothing on Guantanamo Bay, despite the explicit demand of this House that our leaders should uphold the rights of the detainees. On Russia, the conclusions scandalously make no reference to elections which the OSCE called 'a regression in the democratisation process'.(Applause)The decision to bring the People's Republic of China into the Galileo programme seems to have encouraged talk of the lifting of the European embargo on selling arms to the world's only significant remaining Communist dictatorship.(Applause)On all these issues, the Council behaved as if it is ashamed of our values  or ignorant of them altogether.At your press conference after the summit, President-in-Office, you said that but for the IGC, your presidency would be remembered as 'the most glorious of recent years'. Yet agreement on the five issues mentioned by the President of the Commission represents a meagre return on a presidency in which such high hopes were invested. If this was a glorious success, I would be fascinated to know your definition of a failure. You set your presidency the target of a Constitution by Christmas. By your own standards, you have failed.(Loud and sustained applause from the centre and left)
Madam President, you will shortly be paying an official visit to the Netherlands. I am very much looking forward to that. My only regret is that you are not planning to take the opportunity to talk to the representatives of the people, European or national. I would like to ask you why you, yourself, as representative of a parliament, avoid contact with parliamentarians when you visit Member States? Why do you only talk to government officials? I am a member of a party in office myself, but I know that the opposition sometimes has very interesting things to say as well.
chairman of the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs. – The debate on this dossier in the committee I have the honour to chair has been an excellent example of cooperation between different committees in Parliament and indeed of cooperation between Parliament, the Commission and the Council presidency. When it was voted in committee on Monday night, the text and all 200 amendments were available in all languages. I would like to repeat Mr Cox’s call and ask if you will give this House an assurance that there will be an inquiry into why the final text was not available in French until yesterday afternoon, more than 40 hours after it was adopted in committee.(Applause)The fact is that the debate on this directive has been exemplary – it has been a credit to this Parliament and any attempt to delay that debate or to delay a vote would be a sordid political move for reasons of party political advantage.(Applause)
Mr President, the ‘EU budget for the year 2000 – other sections’, which we are considering, follows the rigorous policy of recent years. The budget for institutions other than the Commission and the Council for the year 2000 will be EUR 1.286 billion. The increase is EUR 44 million, or 3.5%. The margin for manoeuvre calculated from Category 5, as referred to in the Financial Perspective, is EUR 135 million.This draft budget focuses mainly on rental arrangements and renovation solutions for the places of work of the institutions. The intention is for the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions to move into Belliard buildings I and II once they have been vacated by Parliament and renovated. The joint organisational structure for these committees will be accommodated in the Bertha von Suttner Building, the former Montoyer building. The rented premises that have been in use until now will be given up. For these solutions to be successful, seamless cooperation is required on all sides.The budget provides for new posts to be created at both Parliament and the Economic and Social Committee to render the administration of the buildings more efficient. One condition of adequate administration, however, is that the division of labour and of responsibility of both Parliament and the Economic and Social Committee be clarified both interinstitutionally and with regard to the individuals involved. This division of responsibility must be considered a pre-condition of the project’s success. There are two reserves attached to the buildings, which are still in the budget. A reserve of EUR 7.4 million has been entered in Parliament’s expenditure for the rental of the Belliard buildings, as the rental agreement between the owner and the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions is still under discussion. If the rental agreement is finalised before the end of the year, the amount mentioned will be deducted from Parliament’s budget, as the European Parliament budget is, at present, 20.11% of Category 5, whereas Parliament has itself declared a ceiling of 20%.There are two reasons why this ceiling has been exceeded. The first is the double budgeting relating to rents, as explained above. The other reason is the reserve related to the Statute for Members. In the spring a reserve of EUR 60 million was included in the parliamentary budget for remuneration related to the Statute for Members. Parliament has demanded that Members’ remuneration be paid from parliamentary funds, and the Council has supported this initiative. Because at present it is the Member States that pay the salaries of MEPs, this will mean that the payments are transferred from the Member States to the European Union. It is quite natural to suppose that a new expenditure item of this kind, which at the same time would diminish Member States’ costs, cannot be included under the ceiling for formerly approved expenditure. If we take these two expenditure items into account, Parliament’s share of Category 5 would be 18.97%, which is in line with the principles of budgetary discipline.Another priority of this draft budget is increasing the resources of the Court of Justice of the European Union, especially their translation resources. According to the Council’s proposal, the Committee on Budgets has recommended that altogether thirty new translator’s posts be established, and that a substantial appropriation be earmarked for paying freelance translators. As appropriations have been proposed for improvements to the electronic office, the Court of Justice can expect a clear increase in resources. After this, we expect that the Court of Justice will be able to cope better with its workload, reduce the number of documents left untranslated, and serve Member States, citizens and businesses better in the interpretation and application of European law. Parliament has both the right and the obligation to demand clear results.Discussion of this year’s budget made it clearer than ever that there is a need to move towards activity based budgeting. The institutions have an abundance of staff, and it is to the benefit of all that they be used efficiently. The present administrative model, however, gives cause for criticism. The institutions seem extremely interested in inventing new requirements and job descriptions, so as to be able to justify their ever-growing need for staff. It is very difficult for Parliament, as a decision-making authority, to scrutinise the chart of its own four thousand strong organisation and draw conclusions as to what new posts are needed for what jobs.Every Member State, however, has had to radically reorganise personnel structures. Jobs have been reallocated, as have posts and staff. That is why in many cases the establishment of new posts is no longer the responsibility of the budgetary authorities. The budgetary authorities only allocate appropriations to the institutions. There are two advantages to this. Firstly, the overall work of an institution is seen clearly, which means that there is less danger of getting swamped in details. The work of the institutions can be assessed more clearly, on the basis of results, and can be better managed. On the other hand, comprehensive budgeting also makes it possible to clarify and increase personal responsibility. This encourages better and more efficient work, as everyone can find a way to work more effectively and use resources sparingly where the need is greatest. It is high time the European Union switched to activity based budgeting, result-oriented management, delegated power and responsibility downwards, and clarified personal responsibilities. We must require managers and heads of department to bear the responsibility for their own areas of revenue, and for their development and improvement.Finally, I would like to thank all those who helped me to prepare this report. I would especially like to thank the Chairman of the Committee on Budgets, Terence Wynn, who has given me his support in so many ways, both in practical negotiations and at meetings of the Committee on Budgets, and in personal discussions. At the same time I wish to thank the main rapporteur, Jean-Louis Bourlanges, with whom I have enjoyed seamless and smooth cooperation. I would also like to thank all the coordinators, especially Reimer Böge of the European People’s Party and Ralf Walter of thefor their constructive and pertinent cooperation. Finally, I wish to thank my own group for their unreserved support in every respect, as well as the secretaries and employees who were involved in the project.
Mr President, Commissioner, e-commerce offers the European Union a unique chance to stimulate economic growth, strengthen the industry’s competitiveness and create new jobs. The legal framework of the internal market plays a crucial role in this. The present proposal removes a whole raft of obstacles and uncertainties which businesses are still having to negotiate in the field of e-commerce. These uncertainties have been there for far too long because the Council needed nearly a year to determine its positions.Similarly, the copyright directive has been with the Council since February 1999, i.e. for over a year now. In the light of the speed of developments, neither industry nor consumers benefit from such delays. Parliament works significantly faster.The country of origin principle is one of the internal market’s cornerstones. It is therefore obvious that this should be extended to cross-border e-commerce. One cause for concern in this respect, however, is that this principle will only apply to trade between businesses for the time being. Revisions of private international law for the benefit of on-line trade with consumers are in the pipeline. It is crucial in this respect that disputes are settled out of court as much as possible. After all, court proceedings are drawn-out and costly. I would therefore call on the Commission to support initiatives to this effect.It is unfortunate that the present directive is not being dealt with in conjunction with, and at the same time as, the copyright directive, because there are inconsistencies in terms of liability of service providers. How does the Commissioner intend to create unambiguous and legally secure positions for service providers? I would like a reply to this question.
Madam President, there is no reason why we should withdraw this resolution, and we have no intention of doing so.(Parliament rejected the joint motion for a resolution)***Motion for a resolution (B5-0653/2000), by Mr Chichester, on behalf of theGroup, on the creation of a monitoring centre for industrial change(Parliament rejected the motion for a resolution)***Motion for a resolution (B5-0656/2000) by Mrs and Mr Clegg, on behalf of the  Group, on the creation of a monitoring centre for industrial change(Parliament adopted the resolution) (4)***Report (A5-0209/2000) by Mr Veltroni, on behalf of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport, on the Communication from the Commission to the Council, the European Parliament, the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions ‘Principles and guidelines for the Community’s audiovisual policy in the digital age’ [COM(1999) 657 – C5-0144/2000 – 2000/2087(COS](Parliament adopted the resolution)***Report (A5-0199/2000) by Mr Heaton-Harris, on behalf of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Tourism, on the report from the Commission – ‘Survey into the socio-economic background of Erasmus students’ [COM(2000) 4 – C5-0146/2000 – 2000/2089(COS)](Parliament adopted the resolution)***Report (A5-0207/2000) by Mrs Boumediene-Thiery, on behalf of the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, on the report from the Commission to the Council and the European Parliament on the implementation of Directives 90/364, 90/365 and 93/96 (right of residence) and on the Communication from the Commission to the Council and the European Parliament on the special measures concerning the movement and residence of citizens of the Union which are justified on grounds of public policy, public security or public health [COM(1999) 127, COM(1999) 372 – C5-0177/1999, C5-0178/1999 – 1999/2157(COS)](Parliament adopted the resolution)Explanations of vote- Bouwman report (A5-0213/2000)
Madam President, I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate Mr Morillon on his report and on the timeliness of that report, in two regards: the common defence policy is an issue under discussion in the European Union and the interim situation which other Members have already mentioned.At the moment, the Iraq crisis is a problem which affects all of us. But in the European Union, although the problem is a common one, the solutions have been different, because the Union has neither a common foreign policy nor a common defence policy.Perhaps we should remember that the fathers of Europe, in 1954, tried to create the European Defence Community, and that it did not work. This report is a positive step, as was the report presented in this House a few years ago by the President.This is a long process which we must work on, so that Europe may have a common defence policy, which is not in opposition to anybody, but in cooperation with our allies and also with the alliance with the other side of the Atlantic. It is not a policy against NATO, but it must be created with their cooperation as well.Just as in 2002 we have managed to establish a single currency, which does not so far involve everybody, but which is expected to do so, we must create a common security and defence policy, in the knowledge that it will cost money and with the conviction that the European Union will have the resources necessary to achieve it. The Convention must take this into account when drawing up the Union’s Treaty.
Mr President, Commissioner, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, I would first like to express my warmest thanks to the rapporteur, Mr Seppänen, and the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, for an excellent report and some excellent cooperation. The Commission has drafted a creditable communication on the state of global competitiveness in the forestry industry. This document has meant that forestry matters have been made the subject of very necessary debate in the EU, which, unfortunately, happens all too rarely.The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development is mainly satisfied with the policies set forth by the Commission and Parliament’s draft report. We would like to stress the importance of the whole forestry chain in our own opinion, and that includes the importance of the profitability of forestry and wood harvesting, which is responsible for the raw material base of the forestry industry. Sustainable agriculture in Europe still depends on the family forest businesses practised by twelve million private forest owners and the activities they are engaged in.The Hague Convention on World Climate Change failed. We, the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, have followed the climate agreement process actively, as, in our opinion, the Kyoto Protocol takes totally insufficient account of the importance of forests. Forests and all wood products are a considerable carbon sink, and their importance in this respect has to be recognised.The coordination of matters of forestry in the EU is poor. There are more Directorates-General to deal with them but there is a lack of uniformity. Personnel resources have been increased in the area of the environment, but the Directorate-General on Agriculture responsible for forestry has very few resources to work with, as does that for industry. For that reason, I support Amendment No 1 by Mrs Schierhuber on behalf of theGroup. Likewise I want to show my support for Amendments Nos 3 and 4 in particular, which are from the opinion by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. Our committee approved them by general consensus.
Mr President, I shall keep to the topic. Landmines kill, every day and in many countries. Landmines are a lethal threat daily in many dozens of countries. In Kampuchea alone, over 35 000 people have been injured by landmines and those are the survivors. Every day, mines are removed and every day new ones are laid.The anti-landmine treaty of 1997 has been ratified by 19 countries and signed by 141. Countries that have not yet signed include Russia, Yugoslavia, but also Finland, which uses mines to defend its border with Russia. That is, of course, cheaper and helps bring down the defence budget. We can understand that. If Finland can use that argument, however, why not other countries too? I should therefore like to call on the Member States to force present and future members, as well as countries that receive financial aid from the European Union, to sign the treaty.
Mr President, in our view, the Roadmap represents, at all events, a chance of peace which must be pursued over and above any feelings of like or dislike. It calls, first and foremost, for an end to the conflict, to terrorism, to suicide attacks, to targeted assassinations; it calls for Israel to withdraw from the occupied territories so that two peoples can coexist in peace within secure borders, with the guarantee of democratic institutions. To this end, we believe that the role of the international community is essential to the Roadmap, but we also believe that the European Union must forge itself a stronger, more incisive role in Middle East politics, not in order to set itself up against the United States but precisely so as to stop continually burying its head in the sand and to establish a foreign policy. Basically, that is the challenge facing the Convention, although it is not yet clear how best to tackle it: the challenge of building a political Europe which is able to address at global, at world-wide level the major issues of today – democracy, peace, freedom and development for all peoples, irrespective of race, colour or creed.
Madam President, I apologise to you and to colleagues if by rising I test their patience, but since you have indulged some others, I should like to express a very brief view.I fully respect your personal choice. On the matter of the vote, you have given the correct interpretation. I entirely regret this result, but one must live as a democrat with due process. On behalf of the Liberal Democrat Group, I would like to the European Commission. It is clear that, in the form presented, the mergers and acquisitions (takeovers) directive, has now fallen. It is such a fundamental and important issue that I hope we do not abandon the attempt because of this difficulty. We must learn from the difficulty and I invite the Commission at the earliest date to redouble its efforts to submit a new proposal, so that we can drive the Lisbon reform forward. We cannot give a signal from this house that we are not concerned with fundamental economic dynamics in the European Union. The Council and the Commission can help us in that regard.(Applause)
Thank you, Commissioner. Would you please answer the two other questions I asked on how the rules have been interpreted in other countries? I would very much like to hear your answer, as the debate in Denmark and the proposals put forward there seem like an April fool’s joke. However, 1 April was last Sunday, and now we have to look ahead, so I would therefore like to hear how other countries have tackled the issue of Article 75.
Mr President-in-Office, this House will vote tomorrow on an amendment on your National Hydrological Plan, so we hope you enjoy your glass of water today.If the European Union were drawing up an end-of-year report card on the Lisbon process, I suspect that the report would say 'must try harder'. Over the last year, we have seen some progress on this agenda, in particular the adoption of the telecoms package in Council, the agreement on the European company statute, reduction of the tax burden by three-quarters of 1% of GDP. All of these things help to promote growth and jobs, provided they are consistent with the growth and stability pact, and clearly we need to be shifting the tax burden away from things we want more, like jobs, and onto things that we want less of, like pollution.But I am afraid this report card would also show that the Union is failing in too many areas. The Commission communication to the Barcelona European Council speaks of a firm commitment to the growth and stability pact, which will help build confidence. If this is so, it was sadly lacking when the Finance Ministers fudged an early warning decision on Germany and Portugal just recently.The rejection of the take-over bids directive is a major setback to competitiveness in the Union and I challenge the other political groups and the Council to join us in speeding through the new Commission proposal under a fast-track procedure, so that we can get it onto the statute book by the end of this year. Another area where we have failed is the failure in Council to adopt a common position on the pensions directive which is essential, not just for a secure retirement for an elderly population, but also for labour market mobility. The European Parliament has done its job. We gave you our first reading opinion in July of last year and we now look to the Spanish Presidency to send us a common position by June of this year, if we are to meet the Commission's target of adoption by the end of this year.Another area where the schoolteacher would rap the Council over the knuckles is the European patent. If we want to close the innovation gap between Europe and the United States, we need easier and cheaper and faster pan-European patent protection. When it comes to behaviour in class, I am not sure that the Union would score well. I welcome the Commission's decision this afternoon to take the Council to the Court of Justice for an attempt to take away the Commission's powers over state aid. The reason we have state aid rules is to ensure a proper functioning of the single market and we need to abolish barriers to competition and to free trade to allow the Commission to be the policeman, and the Council should frankly be ashamed of challenging the Commission on that.Finally, our report card would show a pupil which is lacking ambition. If the European Union is to be a star pupil, we need progress on liberalisation of energy and gas markets, on implementation of the financial services action plan, on agreement of a public procurement framework. The process of economic reform is not an end in itself. It is about increasing prosperity of our people and preparing the European Union for enlargement. What message is it that we are sending to applicant states if we are incapable of implementing ourselves the demanding reforms that we are expecting of them?When it comes to reviewing what happens at Barcelona, we will be judging you by the report card. At the moment, the pupil has to work harder.
Mr President, I simply wanted to make a brief comment on the amendments. I think that an incorrect communication was made to the sittings service. I am the rapporteur for all amendments. I just wanted to say this to avoid any misunderstandings. I would like to take this opportunity to thank all fellow MEPs, and also to thank them for these amendments.(With successive votes Parliament adopted the decisions and the resolution)* * *Report (A5-0097/2001) by Mr Seppänen, on behalf of the Committee on Budgetary Control, concerning the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the European Coal and Steel Community (ECSC) for the 1999 financial yearconcerning the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the European Coal and Steel Community (ECSC) for the 1999 financial year [C5-0654/2000 – C5-0654/2000 – 2000/2167(DEC)](Parliament adopted the resolution)***Report (A5-0109/2001) by Mrs Rühle, on behalf of the Committee on Budgetary Control, on the discharge in respect of the financial management of the sixth, seventh and eighth European Development Funds for the 1999 financial year [COM(2000) 357 – C5-0257/2000 – 2000/2164(DEC)](Parliament adopted the resolution)***Report (A5-0084/2001) by Mrs Hermange, on behalf of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, on the Communication from the Commission to the Council, the European Parliament, the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions – Towards a barrier-free Europe for people with disabilities[COM(2000) 284 – C5-0632/2000 – 2000/2296(COS)](Parliament adopted the resolution)EXPLANATIONS OF VOTE- Cereals and rice markets in Portugal (C5-0716/2000)
Mr President, three years ago, the Tampere European Council gave the initial impetus to a common European asylum and immigration policy. The objective was to have common rules adopted that would make the EU into an area of freedom, security and justice. That was the point of departure. Three years after the Tampere meeting, we must now take a practical stand on an important step towards fulfilling that vision. Those of us in the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party are satisfied that our attitudes have been taken into account in the work of the committee. In our view, it is a coherent and well-balanced report that has been presented for debate here in the Chamber. It is important that we obtain common minimum standards for refugees. If the rules are to be effective, it is also important for all the Member States to have a common definition of what a refugee is. I am pleased that the report contains general rules for determining whether or not international protection is properly justified. Today, a number of the Member States have problems related to asylum and immigration policy. Each year, a large number of illegitimate asylum seekers enter the EU. They are a burden on the whole system and a drain upon those resources that could be used for the benefit of those who have real needs. Illegal immigration and people smuggling must be combated, but genuine refugees must be helped. It is this balance for which we must strive and which, in my opinion, the report makes possible. An important prerequisite of its being possible to put this proposal into practice is that we obtain a common definition of refugees with subsidiary protection status. It must be based upon relevant international conventions such as the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and the UN Convention Against Torture. I support making the concept of subsidiary protection status a part of the common refugee policy. Asylum policy is one thing, however, and integration something else. It is important for third country nationals to be given the opportunity of making headway with their lives in their new countries. That is something which quite a few EU countries know already. For example, Denmark and Sweden have set to work on active integration policies. The proposal has elements relating to common rights for third country nationals with legal residence in the EU, and these rights must form the basis of a sensible and necessary integration policy. Overall, the report takes a balanced view of the problems with which we are confronted, and I hope that it will be able to attract a broad majority in Parliament.
Mr President, I should like to congratulate the Commissioner on the news that has already reached us via the television and to which he responded a moment ago. I hope that this Liberal initiative, which, by the way, received unanimous support in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, has helped you to reach your decision. Given the timeframe, it looks like it was of some help. I would like to concur with Mr Medina Ortega that we are not, in principle, opposed to a deposit system. If we want a deposit system, it would perhaps be helpful within one internal market if we were to introduce a harmonised Community system, as a result of which all businesses and all consumers within one Europe would know where they stand.We are against a restricting deposit system, and the voucher system in Germany does not belong in serious legislation but rather on a fairground, where it entitles you to a few rides on the merry-go-round, but not to do a few laps in Germany. As far as this is concerned, we are pleased with your announcement that you are going to intervene. What I would like to know is whether you could indicate whether it is possible to force, or at least implore, the German Government to suspend the current system with immediate effect? This should happen in any event until a European-wide system has been introduced, or at least a system that complies with the current framework, so that Article 28 would not be violated. This is my first request.Secondly, can you confirm whether it is true – as Mr Lehne claimed – that businesses that have suffered enormous losses, but also perhaps consumers, could recoup the damage from the German Government, for example?I hope that with this measure that you announced, German consumers will very soon again be able to choose freely between such European products as Badoit water, San Pellegrino or Bavaria beer. If this were possible, then I hope that after these ten months of being deprived of these enjoyable European products, the European market will once again be open and that it can help complete the internal market.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, last week, you all received a communication from the Quaestors saying that, as a result of a judicial statement by the French court, drivers’ services will be very limited in Strasbourg this week, and we can only use our own drivers, and not the hired taxis that we always use.When we began our current term of office in 1999, the French government said that it wanted to do everything in its power to make our lives more comfortable here in Strasbourg. Well, first of all, a great many flights from the capitals to Strasbourg have been scrapped. Secondly, it is no longer possible to transport hot water in this Parliament and we are now also being faced with a car shortage. What more could the French government do to make our lives here unbearable?(Applause)I would therefore suggest that only those Members who vote against Strasbourg should still be allowed to use Parliamentary cars.
Madam President, the topic of today’s sitting is making trucks more environmentally friendly. In my book and, of course, in anyone else’s, this is a contradiction in terms. Trucks pollute. This is what they do. And since freight transport, in particular the international variety, invariably takes place by road, we cannot do much more than endeavour to reduce this harmfulness. As far as this is concerned, a compliment is in order for the Committee and the Council, but, above all, for the rapporteur. Given the number of amendments adopted in first reading, his role as a rapporteur can be seen as an outright success.We are very satisfied, even at this early stage, with the outcome before us. We are now dealing with the second reading of a directive, aspects of which will need to be introduced as early as the year 2000. This is why we are under a certain amount of time pressure.The rapporteur is re-opening a number of previous proposals. We can support him in many of those, but there is one section where we do not support the rapporteur but rather the Council’s common position, and this concerns the two-stage approach to the NOx limit value of EURO IV stage. I heard very clearly what the rapporteur says about this. However, the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reform Party considers that if this limit value for 2006 is laid down now, it will, in practice, force industry to apply one specific technology, whilst we are not entirely convinced of the environmental friendliness of this technology. In our opinion, evaluation in 2002 and implementation in 2008 offer a better chance of using a more effective technology.Moreover, the Council proposes introducing a category of very environmentally friendly vehicles. We welcome this proposal in which these vehicles are linked with tax incentives. We also listened with great interest to the rapporteur with regard to the improvements he is intending to incorporate in this proposal.Also, we give our full backing to the rapporteur’s proposals to cut CO2 emissions so that we can achieve the Kyoto objectives, but also to the tax incentives for adapting older vehicles and the adjustment of test conditions, so that actual emissions of vehicles in use can be measured, albeit in the longer term.
Mr President, allow me to begin by expressing my great disappointment at the fact that no minister from the presidency is present at this important debate.President of the Commission, as the mist clears following the Nice Summit, it is clear that the last-minute compromise behind closed doors has its obvious limitations. Now, sobriety has returned, and a broad civic debate has been promised on Europe’s goals, future and responsibilities. That is the way it should be. The promise is binding. But how is that to be arranged? If the citizens of Europe really are to take part in the discussion about the future of the common European project, they are also going to be able to exercise influence. Is the Commission prepared to take proposals and ideas on board and also put them into effect? In that case, the EU will be transformed, opened up and simplified.We know that many citizens want to see a clear constitution. When are they to obtain one? We also know that issues concerning the environment, asylum and cross-border crime are important issues in connection with which our citizens want the EU to be strong, vigorous and willing to act. Are the Commission and the Council prepared to give the EU these tools? The outcome of the Nice Summit puts people off, unfortunately.We know that there is a general feeling of irritation about the fact that the EU meddles in all too many questions of detail. Is the Commission prepared to give the celebrated subsidiarity principle real substance and to find a method of limiting the eagerness for regulating detail which characterises all of us in Brussels and Strasbourg?Citizens of the EU and of the candidate countries, as well as national parliaments and, of course, this Parliament, must be given real influence over the agenda for, the decisions about, and the method for shaping the EU’s future. But how? This is the major unresolved issue discussed by all my colleagues.
Mr President, the European aviation industry is in full swing and is experiencing exciting times. Since 11 September 2001, there has not been a dull moment. Before I comment on the content of the reports, I should like to tell the House how satisfied I am that we have received a European approval for the merger of Air France and KLM and that the competent American authority has also given its stamp of approval. This is important for the industry, particularly in terms of strengthening the European aviation industry, because there is more to come. Even more is yet to be done to ensure that the industry has a sound economic basis.With regard to the report by my colleague Mr Clegg, who has now left the House, I should like to stress the value of the amendment in the light of increasing competition. Many international competitors of European aviation companies operate unaffected by government measures, and this enables them to compete with European aviation companies in improper ways. It is good to stand up to this sort of practice.As far as the report by Mr Dhaene is concerned, I find it extremely agreeable if someone can indicate so specifically and realistically why he is not writing an own-initiative report at the moment. I think this bears witness to much class and I expect him to organise another bicycle trip; perhaps that is when the next round of discussions can be held.Finally, as for Mr Nicholson's report, I am pleased that we were able to work together so intensively at a very early stage, across the political divide, to achieve a realistic result which is also in keeping with the ICAC (International Civil Aviation Conference) agreements that refer to a system of international premiums. Within this framework for European aviation, distortion of competition is virtually ruled out. The special exemption to which attention was drawn this evening is, of course, extremely important for ultra-light aircraft, government aircraft and historic aeroplanes. I am delighted with the progress and I also think it is very positive that Mr Nicholson has made every effort, right until the end, to ensure that we have a sound product here before us.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after 17 years as a Member of this European Parliament, I am standing here today, on behalf of the, to deliver what is probably my last speech in a plenary debate. I am proud, and at the same time thankful, to be here today in a historic place at a historic time. This is a historic place because the European Parliament is at the heart of democracy in Europe and the only European institution to be elected directly by 450 million European citizens. Very soon, on 13 June, the peoples of 25 European countries will collectively choose their MEPs at the same time. Today, Europe is one, reunited in a voluntary, peaceful and sustainable manner on a footing of equality, parity and solidarity. Eurosceptics say that we are investing in a dream. That may be so, but what is wrong with that? At least, and that is important, we are, to a great extent, managing to realise our dreams and unifying Europe.Today, we are specifically commemorating Jean Monnet, the first thinker, or can I say the first dreamer, of a unified Europe, the architect of the Schuman plan, and the initial founder of the present European Union. With Jean Monnet in mind, we can dream to our heart's content. We can cherish dreams, as long as we know how to translate them into action. Although our great European dream is not complete, we have made a good deal of progress. In addition to Jean Monnet, I should also like to pay tribute to all those thousands of others who have helped pave the way and, not least, to the European citizens themselves.The step we are taking on this journey today should also give renewed impetus to the European integration process, because the lack of a truly political European Union will be even more tangible from today. If the European Union is to play a real role of any significance in the world, it should stop appearing to be a purely economic alliance and grow into political adulthood. Today is about more than just the European Union's enlargement; it is about a mutation, a reunification of Europe and of all Europeans. Indeed, today, we are taking a historic step – a step from division to unity, from threatened conflict to guaranteed peace and stability, a step from socio-economic inequality to sustainable growth and prosperity for all our European citizens.Congratulations to all in this House, because we have not missed this historic opportunity of a European Union. Consequently, it is with confidence that I am passing on the torch to the many new, young, enthusiastic Europeans in the unique assembly that this European Parliament is. I should like to say to these young Members, and to all MEPs: the future of Europe is in your hands. Fare well, Europe. Remain a beacon of peace and quiet in the stormy sea that our world, alas, has all too often become.(Applause)
Allow me perhaps to correct the Commissioner on one point: Parliament would probably have wanted to see a greater degree of harmonisation where the current directive is concerned.I have, however, a question for those of you responsible for the internal market. You said that existing differences in levy systems were of no significance. I believe that we need to investigate this area specifically with the internal market in mind. Are the differences in the levy systems between the countries of Europe of any significance? Do they impede the internal market and lead to distortion? I believe that our examination of the trend we have in Europe should start specifically from the perspective of a functioning internal market. I believe it would be important to obtain an account of the ways in which fair compensation or fair remuneration have developed. What are the facts of the case? Above all, I wish, however, to say to you, as Commissioner with responsibility for the internal market, that I believe that the differences in levies affect consumer behaviour and create unequal conditions of competition.
Mr President, Commissioner, firstly, I should like to say that we very often say in this House that consumers must have the same rights as economic operators, and that all sides must be heard. That is what this is about. A situation in which certain organisations are more valuable than others is alien to a large number of us. That would be reminiscent of an Orwellian society.Finally, I should like to point out that I do not think that we can share the Commission’s interpretation that the requesting of internal reviews by qualified entities would not cause problems in the most successful, progressive countries. That is incorrect.(The President cut off the speaker)
Mr President, I too should like to thank Mrs Smet for a quite outstanding report. However, I cannot omit to say that I find it disgraceful that, in the year 2001, we are still discussing these problems, and we know into the bargain that enlargement is not going to make matters any better, to put it mildly. The conclusion is that not only do women have lower paid jobs but, as a result, they do not get the plum management positions either, their having access to which is one of the prerequisites for our being able to change the situation.If, however, I wanted to take the floor here this evening, it is because I want to draw your attention to a study which has just been published in Denmark and which shows that ‘unequal pay’ has its origins in childhood. The study shows that girls receive far less pocket money than boys. They are given far fewer consumer goods than boys and they earn less than boys, which means that boys begin saving up while they are still children. Inequality has thus already been established. This applies to all age groups, except for the 16 to 18 group. In all other age groups, girls are given less pocket money than boys. It is parents themselves, indeed women themselves, who give their girls less pocket money than their boys. It might also be added that boys have much better jobs and so earn more, too. The situation is the same regarding consumer goods. It turns out, of course, that boys have more TV sets, more PCs in their rooms etc. Perhaps we should begin with ourselves. Parents must give some thought to how they treat their children and prevent their being treated unequally from the cradle onwards. I recommend obtaining this Danish report. I thought it was very interesting.
Mr President, Commissioner, do we wish Europe to become a museum? This was the question put by one of my colleagues in the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, having studied the report on human genetics. This debate raises many ethical issues and possesses many ethical dimensions. On the one hand, we have the important ethical dimension of respect for human dignity and for the individual and, on the other, an ethically motivated desire to relieve suffering. It is the first of these dimensions, that of respect for the individual, which has dominated the committee’s report.Although we are not now debating legislation, we are sending important signals to those concerned with these issues, that is, the research community and people with illnesses. Are we signalling to the research community that it is hardly worth trying to carry out promising stem cell research in Europe? Are we signalling to patients suffering illnesses that currently cannot be cured or treated that we do not wish to explore avenues of research which might lead to relief for them?As Liberals, we have the greatest respect for knowledge and research, including stem cell research. At this stage, we do not know the exact implications for humans, but animal experiments have produced promising results. We must not, therefore, rule out embryonic stem cell research. Rather, it must be able to proceed in parallel with research into other stem cells, as parallel research will enable us to increase our knowledge base. Each needs the other.We believe that public support for research is vital in order to ensure that the results benefit as broad a range of people as possible and, indeed, the whole world. We should have liked to have seen the sixth framework programme for research support therapeutic cloning. A total ban on certain forms of research leads to greater risks of abuse and risk-taking. There are certainly elements of the research which ought to be monitored by public bodies, and I believe that public support also increases the opportunities for such monitoring.The Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party thinks it is vital for discussions to continue and, above all, to be conducted in greater depth. However, no one should have a monopoly on ethical issues. Personally, I am highly sceptical of the way in which the European Group on Ethics in Science and New Technologies, which advises the Commission, has been operating. Its work has certainly not been conducted openly. Nor do I believe that critical debate has been permitted within the group.In Parliament too, we must consider the matter in much greater depth than we were able to do in the temporary committee, particularly in terms of issues such as insurance, genetics and working conditions. However, the genetics debate should be conducted in all the committees in order to achieve a greater balance of views than is currently the case.Finally, I should like, on behalf of the Group of the Europe Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, to state that we are unable to vote in favour of the report in its current form. Only if certain amendments are adopted in the final report shall we be able to offer our support.
Mr President, I would like to start by congratulating Mr Bushill-Matthews on this major report. I also have to say that I am extremely grateful to him for having accepted the amendments I proposed which supplement the main part of the report on certain points and certain basic issues. In my opinion, it is extremely important to be focusing on the development of small and medium-sized businesses and what that involves, in order to offset the unemployment in large businesses, apart from anything else. Europe must, therefore, make it a priority to support businesses, create a favourable climate for their establishment and development, encourage research and, above all, encourage the leading sectors. It is also of primary importance that the European Parliament succeeds in monitoring both the projects and the results made possible by European funding.This would appear to be of extreme importance, together with the fact that small and medium-sized businesses in the small craft, trade and tourism sectors – as I pointed out – and other services will also benefit. We must take on board the fact that the era when people stayed in the same job all their lives has passed, that we must change our perception of employment and that the sector of small and medium-sized industry and craft trades will provide increasingly realistic job opportunities for our young people and for the future European citizens. It is vital for Europe to focus on these factors and we must continue to have confidence in this approach.
The report adopted in committee struck a very careful balance between those who wish to move faster to build on the common transport charging framework with concrete measures and those who feel that public opinion is not ready for such a radical rethinking of the way society pays for the use of its transport infrastructure.The rapporteur is pleased with the substantial agreement on the fundamental principles contained in the report, namely that the Community is competent to establish a common methodology for calculating transport costs; that external costs should be included in such evaluations; that revenue should be directed to reducing environmental damage and encouraging modal shift to less polluting transport alternatives; that implementation should be governed by subsidiarity; that the users and polluters pay in proportion to use; and that exemptions should be made for the less mobile members of society and those living in rural areas.For these reasons, whilst I am sympathetic to many of the amendments tabled by the Group of thefor concrete measures, I cannot support them here, since they would jeopardise the consensus on the above principles and can be examined later in the course of the implementation of a charging framework.
I wonder when the treatment and transport of animals will be seen as part of the public health and food safety chain. We have already seen how animal nutrition has significance for people’s health, but the ways in which we treat animals and the methods and systems we use to feed and transport them in fact affect public health as directly as does poor animal feed. If these matters are not handled in the right way, there is a significant increase in the risk of diseases. These are mainly cured with antibiotics, but large quantities of tranquillisers are also used.One consequence of antibiotics being misused as a result of poor animal husbandry is that what, during the last 60 years, have been simple infections are now – and, above all, will be in the future – significantly more serious when antibiotics are no longer available to us.
The fight against poverty can only be won if we use natural resources in a responsible manner. More than two billion people are deprived of modern forms of energy and more than one billion people have no clean drinking water. Agricultural production is on the decline while the number of mouths to be fed is increasing. Bio-diversity would have been a thousand times greater if man had not interfered with nature, and the link between a polluted environment and health is evident. Rio’s political framework was sound, but its execution poor. Over the past ten years, official development aid for nature and the environment even took a serious blow and there is hardly any evidence of good governance. At the start of this century, the world leaders are given another chance, but Johannesburg can only succeed if specific implementing programmes are drafted with concrete pledges to match. Whoever declares war on poverty must make peace with nature.
Mr President, Commissioner, rapporteur, thank you for the dynamism you have injected into your work. The task of politicians and policy-makers in the field of security measures, in this case in ports and on ships, consists in striking the difficult balance between workability and the desired effect of the intended measures. This is a thankless task from the outset, for the port authorities and shipping companies that are required to apply the new regulations will always experience these as a nuisance. For the legislator, the question does remain whether security in the maritime sector will actually increase as a result of this. So far, this sector has enjoyed a sound reputation where security is concerned. If this were to remain so thanks to this package of legislation, the question is whether we in Europe will receive credit for it. To wait and see is not an option. This is why it is particularly important for this package to be applied promptly, but not at the expense of everything else. I find it strange that we in Europe are going further than what we agreed in the framework of the IMO, especially by also wanting to apply the measures to our local shipping. It is worth noting that America, which forced this package through in the context of IMO, does not do this itself.Why is Europe aiming so high? An administrative burden on our local shipping will lead to goods being transported through Europe with more difficulty. This particularly affects the small ports, with only a few hundred thousand euros in turnover. More obstacles in the transport of goods means that the transport sector, as a rule, will incur additional costs. Additional costs are inefficient, and inefficiency means that the Lisbon objectives are certainly not moving any closer.At that rate, we will never be competitive at an international level. Meanwhile, ships sail up and down the east and west coast of America, carrying goods, without encountering any port authorities or customs officials. In Europe, this will be a different story anyhow, as our internal market does not, unfortunately, apply to our coastal strip. Local shipping between the Netherlands and Belgium does not exist. This is still considered international, but will thus from now on also fall within the internal market. The internal maritime borders should therefore be lifted.Finally, I should like to say that, in general, I will be supporting the amendments tabled by the Group of the. I will withdraw my Amendment 42 because Amendment 65, tabled by the Group of the, is preferable.
Mr President, I would like to welcome the Speaker of the Knesset – whose acquaintance I made during a visit to Israel a very short while ago – and the representatives of the Palestinian Legislative Council.We all deeply regret the partial failure of the Camp David discussions, although we would like to thank President Clinton and Mrs Albright as well, who put so much work and brainpower into the talks.However, we feel – and here we agree with the report – that this peace agreement which is being drawn up has increased the possibilities and that there is a way forward.We feel that everything that can be possibly be done now and in the future, including in terms of equal opportunities, must be done and followed up: the Palestinian people has the right to self-determination, without prejudice to the rights of the State of Israel.There is one more point which deserves our attention, Mr President, which concerns the city of Jerusalem, which is one of the most sensitive elements in the issue. We must endeavour to preserve the religious, cultural and universal character of this holy city, and it must certainly not become the subject of haggling or the property of any one side. It has been proposed that it become the capital of both States. That would be ideal.I would also like to touch on a personal, political consideration. Europe must make an additional effort, it must take further steps to gain and perform a political as well as an economic role. We cannot limit our concern to economic issues or matters of water, the sovereignty of Lake Tiberias and so on and so forth. We must not forget our political responsibility to history: the European Union has a responsibility as well as the Heads of the States of Israel and Palestine. Europe must become a political body and negotiate to achieve peace in this case as well, doing everything in its power to ensure that lasting peace is established in the Mediterranean.
Mr President, Commissioner, only 43 days to go to 1 January 2000. A date which many are looking forward to. But before we can open the champagne with peace of mind at the turn of the millennium, specific European action in the civil and military nuclear sectors is desperately needed.Within the European Union and the United States, the problems have been identified in good time. However, this has been the case to a lesser extent in Central and Eastern Europe. The millennium problem in the nuclear energy sector should primarily be tackled by the International Atomic Energy Agency. This UN organisation is the designated body for worldwide nuclear issues. However, the IAEA has indicated that it has no funding for specific support to solve problems in Central and Eastern European countries. The question remains as to whether these countries are themselves putting enough money into tackling the millennium bug. Russia, in particular, is teetering on the brink of bankruptcy.Earlier this year, Parliament quizzed the then Commissioner, Mr Van den Broek, concerning the EU’s role in this transnational problem. His reply was that the IAEA has drawn up an inventory of potential problems. I now have three questions for the Commissioner.Firstly, does the Commission have the results of this inventory? If so, I would like to ask the Commissioner to provide an outline thereof. Secondly, is the Commission conducting negotiations with governments in Central and Eastern Europe? What concrete action has ensued therefrom? Thirdly, what is the cost involved to the European Union? I thank you and await your reply.
Mr President, I too am heartened to see that public finances in the countries concerned are sound, but I have noticed that more and more people are becoming nervous about the situation regarding price stability in Europe. They state that, in one of the largest countries – which is also one of the most important countries for the European economy, namely Germany – there is a risk of jumping into something resembling overheating. I should like to hear your assessment of inflationary development in Germany and ask whether you think that inflation in the EU generally is cause for concern.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, like the previous speakers, I hope that this initiative will not be seen as the umpteenth European organisation, but that people will take this initiative seriously and, as a consequence, will give it enough of a chance. I just have a few reservations with regard to the name. The term ‘police academy’ makes me think of a humorous American TV series about the police. What is more, I find the word ‘academy’ is not assertive enough when it comes to police operations. That is just a minor detail, of course. I think that it is more important to confine ourselves to the essentials.Social conditions in most Member States of the European Union are now such that there is indeed a great need for cross-border cooperation between the various police forces. Cross-border cooperation can only lead to results if a number of conditions are met, if the greatest care is taken over appropriate, goal-directed programmes for ongoing training, if attention is paid to training regarding the Member States’ response to crisis situations in third countries and if exchanges and secondments are made possible in a professional way, with the emphasis on the professional aspect.Special attention must also be paid to training at European level with regard to crime prevention, maintenance of public order and efficient border control. On the other hand, a European Police College needs to become the forum for gaining an understanding of the various national police systems and defending the knowledge they have.In short, I hope that there will be no delay in giving concrete expression to this initiative which, to my mind and also in my Group's opinion, answers the need to bring about a European training structure.
Mr President, I welcome this very good report and congratulate the rapporteur. I will say, however  and I do not say this to reproach Mr Moraes, or as a 'turf' issue  that it is a sad comment on the perceived definition of justice and home affairs in the EU institutions – that is, law enforcement and tough borders – that it is the social affairs side which is given the full lead on issues of citizenship and non-discrimination. We must place these human rights issues within the justice framework, as well as the social policy framework.The insistence on local and European voting rights for legal immigrants is a key issue. How can we possibly expect them to integrate if they are denied civic and political participation? An active approach to integration is overdue. The controversies over the wearing of the hijab, the Muslim headscarf – or la voile, as the French rather confusingly say – show how acute the arguments can be. The fascinating difference between, for example, French and British attitudes shows that there is no one definition of integration. What we should be clear about is that it does not mean assimilation. Integration is surely a two-way street in which all parties have to adjust to a dynamic and changing society. It is not a soft option; hard effort is needed not only from immigrants themselves – such as language learning and equality – but also from indigenous communities in accepting and learning from differences.Finally, I hope all of us here  and I know Mr Moraes does his best  will try to persuade our national governments to stop populist and mean measures that only collude with media hysteria. For instance, if asylum seekers were allowed to work, they could escape the jibe of being welfare scroungers, which is unfairly thrown at them and which gives such a bad start to their eventual integration if they get legal status.
Mr President, Egypt is crucial to stability in the Middle East. The country maintains important relations with the United States and Europe. Unfortunately there is still no internal stability. As long ago as 1967 a state of emergency was declared and has never been revoked. Egypt is still far from being a democracy. It lacks essential political freedoms and human rights are violated. The government restricts the activities of political parties, human rights organisations, professional associations and the press. People are imprisoned without trial and tortured. Show trials are still held. The recent sentencing of the American sociologist Ibrahim fits very well into this poor picture. It proves that jurisprudence is controlled by political motives and is unjust. As an important partner of Egypt’s, we should protest emphatically against these abuses. The Barcelona process will never get off the ground if democratisation is bogged down in autocratic reluctance. Stability means something else besides stripping people of rights.
Mr President, I had no idea that I had that effect on microphones!I would like to congratulate the rapporteur for his work. I would also like to congratulate the Council for having finally seen sense, assisted, it must be said, by the introduction of qualified majority voting. There are great lessons there for us in the Convention and in the IGC.The Council has finally moved to a common position which the large majority of Liberals are able to accept fully. The first draft sought – absurdly – to outlaw political party campaigning with public money. What on earth are political parties for if they are not for campaigning? The new draft, however, has corrected this and is allowing sufficient possibility for political parties to receive modest private donations. The question of the threshold is settled quite reasonably in favour of small political movements with real and serious European objectives. Certain other officious bureaucratic provisions have been removed. This is good news for parliamentary democracy in Europe.Trans-national political parties are a vital sinew of democracy, articulating the anxieties and the aspirations of the citizen on a European scale. The constitutionalisation process in which the Union is presently involved requires the engagement of mature European political parties. This report is a breakthrough and should be supported by all those who wish this institution well and who subscribe to the principles of transparency and accountability.
Mr President, there are a number of advantages to this text. Firstly, it gives us the opportunity to reiterate that we all condemn hooliganism and that we all obviously want to fight this phenomenon to the best of our ability.I must also point out, however, that, for two years now, in both the Netherlands and Belgium, the sporting, political and police authorities have been preparing in a professional manner for Euro 2000 and, in practical terms, huge investments have been made.Despite that, is there still a risk? Of course, but then there is always a risk. When faced with such a phenomenon, you can never say that nothing will happen. However, I must say very sportingly to our British colleague that this does not justify an event of this type being used from the outset to incite prejudice. It does not justify the attempt to spread incorrect information in official European Parliament documents either.Paragraph 2, as indicated by Mr Dehousse, is incorrect. The Belgian authorities have given authorisation for the Charleroi stadium to be used. Paragraph 3, which indicates that the King Baudouin stadium in Brussels might be used, is wrong. No authority and no official has indicated this. We must therefore be reasonable and certainly not adopt texts like this.Finally, our fellow member has cited information which he was delighted to indicate was given to him by the BBC. I should like to mention something which was said on the BBC by someone who is not a football referee like you but who is the coach of the England team. What did Mr Keegan say – I am nearly finished, Mr President – during his visit to Charleroi? He said that it is a suitable stadium for a high-level match. He even said that this stadium differs very little from a large number of stadia in England.So, be sporting! As a referee, Mr Heaton-Harris, you have one viewpoint but I prefer that of Mr Kevin Keegan who seems to me to be better qualified. Therefore, please withdraw your motion.
Mr President, as reflected in the resolution agreed between the four groups, we have had good news and bad news with regard to Paraguay. Clearly, the bad news is that democracy is once again being threatened, but there has also been good news: the democratic forces have resisted and, furthermore, General Oviedo has been arrested in Brazil.We believe that Paraguay is probably a forgotten country, which has been helped by its integration into Mercosur, and, from that point of view, it is important that our relations with Paraguay should improve the situation, and that Brussels should find a way to help that country and at the same time remind it, as we will surely do later in the case of Peru, of the democratic clause which is the inspiration for all our actions. We also believe that it would be a positive thing for the Commission to take account of Paraguayan civil society.Other equally positive signs are the reduction in corruption and the hope that General Oviedo, like Pinochet, will be tried.
Mr President, there have been several weeks for us to reflect carefully upon the draft Treaty establishing the Constitution. It is gratifying for those of us who were Members of the Convention to see that, despite some initial posturing, most members of the European Council appear now to be accepting the outcome of the Convention with few qualifications. They can all see that if the IGC discards the outcome of the Convention, then it will fall to them to come up with alternative solutions commanding a greater consensus.Prime Minister Blair should be especially congratulated for apparently discarding previous British Government positions upon defence. At his Berlin Summit meeting at the weekend, Mr Blair seemed sensibly to accept the Convention's proposals for structured cooperation within and outside Nato, allowing a core group of capable Member States to forge forward to build a common European security and defence policy, not as a last resort but as a first call.It is a tribute to the Convention process that it stands up to such critical assessment, especially from this House, which is not known for complacency when it comes to these questions.The Convention certainly examined all the options, refined all the arguments, and took a broad political approach with the common interest of Europe very much at the centre of our work. It is for that reason that this resolution properly demands that the spirit of the Convention – transparent, pluralistic, political – should be brought forward to the IGC.I support the President's proposals that there should not be technical working groups. I very much support their proposals to have stronger representation of the European Parliament at the IGC. Perhaps it will be possible before the summit on 4 October to reopen this issue at the General Affairs Council next week. An IGC with a more democratic flavour and less diplomatic style will be more successful and much quicker in reaching a conclusion.
Thank you very much for that reply. Let me reiterate my appreciation that the Commission and Parliament are, for the first time, speaking with one voice on changes to Parliament's role in important trade agreements.I just want to ask you a non-legal and institutional question: if we look, for instance, at the decision which was taken to submit the Uruguay Round conclusions to the assent of this Parliament, there were some legal questions relating to the institutional and budgetary implications of the Agreement, but the decision was fundamentally a political recognition that this was an agreement of such importance that the strict boundaries of what was then Article 113 could, so to speak, be overstepped, thus allowing the Agreement to be submitted to Parliament's assent. My own view is that the accession of China to the WTO, whilst perhaps not quite as eye-catching as a multilateral agreement, is just as important to the future global trade regime, and that a similarly political position might therefore be taken by both Parliament and the Commission. I would urge you to do so. I would ask you what you think we could do together to promote this type of action.
Mr President, there are countries in the world that do not take human rights very seriously, including China, the last great Communist dictatorship on the planet. The lack of respect for human rights is, for me, the main reason why we should not here and now remove the European embargo on the sale of weapons to China. Last weekend, the Council agreed that consideration should be given to whether the embargo should be removed. We do not believe the time is ripe. It is of course true that there has been progress in China since the massacre in Tianamen Square in 1989, and it is also a fact that the political dialogue between the EU and China has improved, but there is still cause for considerable concern about the Chinese lack of understanding of human rights and of the state governed by law. We know that there are violations of fundamental freedoms, that torture and arbitrary imprisonments take place, that the Chinese authorities do not respect minorities and that many executions occur – more than in any other country in the world. We also know that China has deployed rockets pointing over the straits towards democratic Taiwan and that there is now increased tension across the Straits of Taiwan.Are we to close our eyes to the fact that a dictatorship – China – is threatening one of the foremost democracies in the Far East, namely Taiwan? When it comes to human rights and democracy, Taiwan is exemplary, while China gives every cause for alarm. Are we now to be involved in helping the Chinese to rearm? That, we believe, would be a really bad idea.
Commissioner, you are not the only one who is angry. When I see how this event is destroying the livelihoods of so many people and of a whole region, we are all angry. On behalf of my group I can tell you that our hearts are with them all, and I believe that we must offer them help through all the channels we have. Here in Parliament we must do what a parliament must do, however, which is to make rules and reinforce existing rules. The first thing I would like to ask – and I am also addressing this request to my good friend Mr Bertel Haarder – is that we apply the existing rules and that we take Erika I and II in hand. There is still a document being debated in the Council, Mr Haarder, and I hope that you will do something about this. We must also tighten up a number of things that are contained in Erika I and II; I am thinking in particular of ports of refuge and safe anchorages. In order to prevent major catastrophes, we must make this system compulsory, so that ships that get into difficulties can get help there and are not turned away. We must draw up a rule for this. The Commission is supposed to be carrying out a study. We must have this. We must also have a compensation rule for ports or places of refuge that take in ships. We now have a ship lying at a depth of 3 500 metres with 50 000 tonnes of oil still on board, and this ship will be causing problems for years. We must avoid this kind of thing in future.Secondly, I would like to comment on port state control, as mentioned by Mr Simpson. Let us tighten this up for hazardous ships. It is absolutely no use checking 25% of ships in good condition; you must focus the controls on hazardous ships and old ships. We must make sure that ships passing through sensitive shipping zones are better controlled. We ask that you enter into negotiations with third countries, including with Russia, with a view to possibly signing bilateral agreements in this regard. It is time to put an end to the quarrels between the Council, the IMO and the Commission. The Commission must negotiate and must be given the opportunity to talk about this; then we will have much stricter rules. International legislation – and this is clearly stated in the resolution we all agree on – cannot be a reason to destroy the environment and people’s lives. The one must not take priority over the other.Finally, with regard to the debate on procedures; together with the Commission and the Council, we must act fast and get rules down on paper. We are therefore not in favour of a committee of enquiry, as this would take too long.
Mr President, Commissioner, it is clear that the political situation in Kampuchea is calmer at this moment than it has ever been and it is equally clear that the country is still a long way from being a real democracy. Much support is still required on the slow road to democracy, and the local elections will be an extremely important moment in that process.The Kampuchean People’s Party, which controls the country, is an old-style Communist party, which means that it as a party is directly or indirectly involved in everything, in every sector, at every level in that country. Consequently, it is not surprising that the local elections should be considered a threat and that they have been repeatedly postponed. It is therefore essential that we continue to exert international pressure on the government to do everything possible to create a violence-free period before the elections and to reopen the procedure for voter registration. Voter registration is in the hands of the village headmen, who are appointed by the central committee of the Kampuchean People’s Party, and nothing is simpler than to give poll cards to those in favour of the government and withhold them from those opposed to it.Only last Monday, the leader of the opposition, the Member of Parliament, Sam Rainsy, had a meeting with the local representative of the European Commission, who in that conversation, was able to make the point that we have a very positive attitude to the National Election Committee. I am far from being so enthusiastic. We must watch that National Election Committee very closely, since it is at the crux of whether or not the elections are being conducted fairly. The European Union has little cause to be proud of the way in which we observed the elections in Kampuchea last time, and we must do a lot better this time.
Madam President, on 25 November the procedures were adhered to in a formal sense, but everyone is well aware that there is a deterioration in the Community spirit. There are passages in force that are admissions of weakness and the oxygen of confidence has become scarce in the European Union since that day.We do not have sanctions, but the obligation to reduce deficits remains. Indeed, one of the Council’s conclusions highlights this. We must therefore save what may be left of the Pact today, in other words its spirit, the quest for stability and growth, using the one to achieve the other.What has happened also raises the question of the Franco-German relationship. It is not a question of its necessity as regards moving Europe forward but its credibility in ensuring that the steps forward are accepted. The Franco-German relationship is a driving force, but this driving force must not turn into a detonator that would cause Europe to explode.(Applause)
Mr President, in my own country, Sweden, a priest proposed yesterday that, in order to avoid war, someone should be paid to kill Saddam Hussein. That is perhaps a rather bizarre message, coming from a representative of the Church of Sweden, but the idea of a regicide in the service of the people is otherwise quite an old one. Certainly, some of us have had these thoughts in secret, but this type of murder cannot of course be committed. It would be contrary to international law.The war could nonetheless perhaps be stopped if Saddam Hussein were to resign or go into exile. The discussions now being conducted within the Arab world to induce Saddam Hussein to resign are extremely interesting. We hope, of course, that an international court will be able to hold Saddam accountable for his crimes.If the clock could be turned back, there is a lot in the Iraqi conflict that could have been done differently. The Arab world should have been involved much earlier in the discussion of the future of the whole of the Middle East. The United States, the EU and the UN Security Council ought to have shown greater commitment to solving the conflict between Israel and Palestine. The peace talks must begin again. Otherwise, we shall never win the fight against terrorism.Now, the drumbeats of war can be heard. The view of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party is still that the weapons inspectors must be allowed to continue with their work for as long as their efforts are meaningful and for as long as they are making progress. The progress that has been made has been due not to Saddam Hussein’s having become willing to cooperate but to the resolutions and the threat of military force. We must never forget that it is Saddam Hussein who must prove that he does not have weapons, not the UN which must find them.Hopefully, war can still be averted. It is our view that if, in fact, any military decisions are to be taken, they must be taken by the UN Security Council. The UN is, however, seriously wounded at present. The horse trading that is going on in order to convince countries to vote yes or no in the Security Council is pathetic and damages the entire international community. When the permanent members quarrel, these difficult decisions are left to countries such as Ghana, Cameroon and Angola. This is unreasonable and frightening, and it undermines the UN’s credibility. Substantial reform is becoming a matter of ever greater urgency. The UN is divided, as are NATO and the EU, and transatlantic relations are damaged. The only person to delight in the fact is the dictator in Baghdad.
Mr President, I would like to add my voice to those who have already expressed their satisfaction and support for the basic outline in the Bourlanges report. Mr Bourlanges stands before a double paradox – a debate on the budget which deals with expenditure but not income, and then a budget subject to the double conflicting pressure of an increase in the tasks of the European Union and an actual trend towards reduction of the European GDP rate which is reflected in the Union’s budget. The way out of the paradox has been suggested to us and means not accepting tomorrow’s priorities being financed by the sacrifices and priorities of today and yesterday, and consequently, financing new, indispensable priorities of external actions by increasing the Financial Perspective for Category 4.I hope that the European Parliament will follow the rapporteur’s statement and that the Executive Commission and the Council will accept the consequences of this. However, I do not think that everything can come down to difficult negotiations that seek a possible compromise between new resources and the sacrifice of former priorities. It would be a short-sighted attitude which is largely hypocritical and out of keeping with the irreversible prospect of an extension of the Union’s competences and geographical enlargement of the Union’s strategy. This prospect is dictated by the implementation of the Treaty of Amsterdam, but even more so by the change in global political balances following the war in Kosovo. One of the few and sure guarantees of stability and prosperity in Europe which cannot be ignored is Europe’s active presence on the world stage and its unequivocal, open attitude towards progressive enlargement policies, even towards south-east Europe and the Balkans in the perspective of that parallel virtual enlargement of peace and security which Mr Prodi has given us a glimpse of.In these circumstances, we need to make a bold choice. We need the hypothesis which is contained in Mr Bourlanges’ proposal to be set out for all to see. We have to say that the emperor is naked! Today the European Parliament, the Executive Commission and the Council have to take on the responsibility for opening a broad, thorough debate in full view of the European taxpayers. In short, we need to ask ourselves whether or not the moment has arrived to entrust the European institutions with greater shares of financial resources. This must not lead to any increase in public spending in Europe, but requires individual countries, all the European countries, to be willing to transfer the resources corresponding to the de facto transfer of competences to the Union. The increase in the Community budget will and can correspond to a reduction in national budgets. The task we have before us is a formidable one which can no longer be avoided, for otherwise the all the European institutions will lose credibility. I hope that Parliament will take this path.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, as my fellow Group member, Mr Haarder, announced in his intervention, I am going to focus on the specific aspects of the follow-up to the Lisbon European Council. In this respect our Group is critical, as it sees that the results are poor.In Lisbon what was agreed upon was a process of economic liberalisation, a process of structural reforms, the consolidation of the single European market and a move towards a single market for services, with the ambition of making the European economy the most competitive internationally by 2010, without, of course, giving up the social dimension or the levels of well-being that characterise the societies belonging to the Union.At this European Council, however, we have found that the individual interests of Member States have blocked necessary processes of liberalisation. Others, through internal disputes, as the Swedish Prime Minister has said in his capacity as President of the Council, have not been able to reach the necessary agreement for the single European sky, and so it has not been possible to turn what were good proposals at Lisbon into a reality. That is why our assessment is critical and we think the results are poor.
Mr President, the Commissioner has told us that vaccination has not been asked for. It is being asked for today in this House. A decision on vaccination is not easy. I understand that many farmers are reluctant to go down the route of vaccination but the effect of this outbreak is being felt not only by the farming community, but by hauliers, hoteliers and a whole host of tourist businesses who are suffering without compensation. The Commissioner told us the disease has cost EUR 170 million in eradication measures. It is costing far more in lost business. If science allows us to distinguish between animals which have been vaccinated and those carrying the disease, then vaccination should be allowed whenever requested.The lessons from the UK are of inadequate contingency planning, an inadequate number of vets due to cuts in government services and inadequate supplies of labour and materials. I would ask the Commissioner three questions. Are you satisfied with the UK's response to this disease? Are you satisfied that other countries have adequate contingency plans? Would you confirm that the first you heard of this disease in the UK was indeed on 20 February or were your services in fact tipped off about a possible outbreak some weeks earlier?
Mr President, sometimes it is an advantage to be spokesman for the third group in Parliament because it has provided me with time to read the Commission's paper. I can, therefore, say with some authority that I strongly welcome it. It is a strong assertion of the Commission's orthodox function and it should shift the debate about where a power lies, centre stage inside the Convention. It represents a challenge to those Prime Ministers who prefer to opine on the fringes of the Convention but who seem far too frightened to contribute official proposals.As most of the items in the Commission's programme appear also in my draft for a federal Union it is clear that I shan't be your fiercest critic and, while I commend the firm rejection of an idea of a Super-President of the Council, I do have concerns and reservations about the proposal for an executive Presidency of the Council. I wonder if this would not lead to more of the inconsistency and the conflict with the Commission that we have at present.Surely it would be an improvement to follow the logic of what you propose for foreign and security policy, which is the virtual cloning of Mr Solana and Mr Patten, and to follow that practice in the other two areas where the Council enjoys executive authority. Why not let the Commissioner responsible chair the Council in its formations for economic policy and interior affairs?Nevertheless, despite some reserves the Parliamentary delegation in the Convention will follow the principal lines of this proposal and I look forward to future close collaboration inside the Convention with Mr Barnier and Mr Vitorino.(Applause)
Mr President, I hope we do not have to come here again to talk about our employment conditions. When I looked at the UK press over the weekend I could not recognise myself or indeed any of my colleagues in the lurid descriptions of our supposed lifestyles and endless perks. Many journalists have telephoned me with the opening line 'Oh, so you are about to vote yourself a 25% pay rise.' When I explain the whys and wherefores, they suddenly lose interest, it is not an interesting story any more. Surely this is the point. Our conditions of employment and our expenses should not be the story, they should be transparent, a matter of public record: proper recompense for a job well done and reimbursement for monies paid out in doing that.Colleagues, I believe this is our last chance to reach the stage where we are no longer the story, but our work is. We have a package before us that in most ways represents a compromise for all of us. It is a package that should get through the Council if we are reasonable regarding items of primary law, but the Council too must compromise over tax.Some Members of this House may be uncomfortable about the level of salary: for some it is too much, for some too little, but finally we seem to have a figure that we can all just about live with. Then the expenses: again at last we seem, thanks to your work, Mr President, to have a proposed system that is much more transparent than hitherto. For some it may not go far enough, but it is a vast improvement.There will have to be some compromise and understanding on all sides. What we will have finally established, the big prize, is a single statute for MEPs. This is our last chance. It was hard enough to get here, and the circumstances will not arise again. We have a chance for interest in this House to focus on our work and not our pockets. I hope sufficient numbers of us will have the courage to bend a little and vote for this package and the amendments by the  and other groups.Quite frankly, colleagues, although I pay absolute tribute to the work of our rapporteur, I do not want to listen to him in committee meetings on this subject for another five years. His very considerable talents and our time could be much better employed on other legislative work which directly benefits all Europe's citizens.(Applause)
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Jarzembowski report emphasises the importance of faster development of freight rail networks, giving particular consideration to cross-border issues. In this context, I would like to draw your attention to the untenable situation of the Italian railway line between Savona and the border with France; a rail link connecting western Liguria with the Cote d’Azur.This single track – I repeat, single track – line is a bottleneck for freight and passenger rail traffic, causing substantial damage to the economy of the area, which is dependent on tourism, olive-growing as well as the production of flowers and fruit and vegetables. The single track also increases safety risks and such a shortfall in the rail system has repercussions on road traffic, with serious congestion problems and pollution in an area that is heavily geared towards tourism.There has been talk of laying a second track since the 1950s, when I was still a small boy. Since then, the situation has not changed and increases in the volume of traffic make it even more critical, almost unsustainable, due to the continual delays that are building up and also affecting the adjoining French section of the line.Relatively recent works have moved further inland some sections of the railway line – also single track – that runs right along the coast and is therefore subject to coastal erosion. This has worsened the state of affairs because it has caused further bottlenecks.I will conclude with the hope that, as part of revitalising the international networks in the European Union, a speedy solution will be found by 1 January 2006, the date set for opening the rail networks to all types of rail freight services.
Mr President, I should like to make a comment on today’s agenda. It strikes me that today’s debates will finish around 5.30 p.m., while the votes will not start until 6.30 p.m. We have had this situation for a long time now. It means that for many of the Members, it is just too late to return home at the end of the debate, and they therefore have to stay on until tomorrow, or return home sooner. In my view, it is an excellent thing that we are here, even if we have to burn the midnight oil as far as I am concerned, if we have something to discuss. If that is not the case, then we should not be required to sit here drinking coffee for an hour. I would therefore ask you if you could perhaps put it to the President to see whether this problem can be solved in such a manner that Members need not at any rate stay on any longer than is necessary.
Allow me first of all to say that the SEK 20 billion that Mr Sjöstedt talks about could instead be used to reduce the Swedish national debt and in that way, of course, contribute to a stronger Swedish economy.Moving on now to my follow-up question to the Commissioner: is it not shown by experience and by numerous scientific studies that an independent Central Bank and a common currency make a major contribution to strengthening the economy and, in that way, increase people’s real wages and purchasing power; or, in other words, broaden the scope for the reform mentioned by Mr Sjöstedt in his question?
Madam President, on a point of order. Your words echoed the sentiments of everyone in the House and certainly of my group. It is important that we discuss the issue and that it should be treated as an issue in its own right and not as part of a longer list of issues, where we are trying to deal with so many points before Biarritz. If we could in some way find a way of looking at this item separately, my group would greatly appreciate that.
Mr President, as you know, the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party has voted basically in favour of the Gil-Robles/Tsatsos report and the proposed European Constitution offered by the European Convention.As I stated in the debate, however, the Catalan Members of Convergencia i Unió cannot accept this position and we have stated that we will abstain. Having seen how the votes have unfolded, furthermore, we confirm with even more conviction our decision to abstain and to wait to establish our final position until the result of the draft European Constitution, which may be presented by the Intergovernmental Conference.We regret in particular that the Group of the European Peoples’ Party and the Group of thehave voted against our proposals to recognise and associate the regions with full legislative powers with the institutions of the Union, and also that the idea that the Ombudsmen of the parliaments of these regions with full legislative powers should be associated with the work of the European Ombudsman has been rejected. I believe this is a mistake, since it leaves millions of citizens far from the reality which is closest to them. This is the case for, amongst others, the stateless nations and the regions with a strong personality and sense of identity, and I believe it goes entirely against our stated aim of being closer to the citizens and building a Europe of the peoples.
Mr President, our group considers that this is on the whole a good result and especially welcomes the fact that the area of application is extended to include the whole of Community law. These rules are to apply, in particular, within the second and third pillars. We welcome the wealth of initiative and invention which has characterised this work. We should like to thank the rapporteur.We think that the institutional solutions are very good. We are not talking about some form of collegiate body but about a supervisor and assistant supervisor.It is important to ensure that, important as data protection is, this must not mean limited access to documents within the EU’s institutions. The European ombudsman has unfortunately been compelled to point out that the Commission has used data secrecy as a reason for limiting access to information about who had taken part in a meeting intended to sway the Commission. This is an example of the misuse of data protection, which must not occur. I really do hope it is ensured that the regulations will not be applied in that way.We must also be aware of the fact that the European ombudsman and the data protection supervisor will be on opposite sides of the fence. We must not be surprised if they sometimes end up in public discussion with each other. The fact that their tasks have not been combined is extremely positive.To some extent, this is an automatic transfer from the old Directive 95/46/EC. In this connection, I want to take the opportunity to ask the Commissioner when revision of the general directive on data protection is to begin. There is, of course, an obvious need to revise this directive with a view to modernising it, so that it meets those needs mentioned by Mrs Cederschiöld. Data protection on the telecommunications network ought also to be reviewed.Finally, I want to point out that, as a Finnish citizen, I have realised that the European Parliament is the only institution – the only elected body – to supervise the Commission’s decisions when it comes to the level of data secrecy in third countries. We are aware of the famous case in which such supervision was applied. The European Parliament is the only body which can democratically supervise decisions by means of the committee procedure which exists.I now see that my own country is to alter the law relating to personal data which deprives elected representatives of any influence at all over the Commission’s decisions. I therefore welcome the constructive dialogue we have established with the Commission, together with the appropriate committee procedure which will guarantee citizens’ security.
Mr President, I should first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur and to emphasise that there is basically no difference in the attitudes of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs and the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy. We therefore endorse the rapporteur’s conclusions, particularly his comments on delays, which should be avoided in future. The Committee on Industry perhaps emphasised to a greater extent the importance of SMEs for employment, the need to facilitate access to risk capital, the need to simplify bureaucratic and administrative procedures and regarding improving the coordination between the various Commission programmes of interest to small and medium-sized enterprises.We therefore tabled a number of amendments and, as the rapporteur has just explained, due to an unfortunate combination of circumstances, the rapporteur did not receive the amendments in time. I should like to thank him, nonetheless, for having tried to accept Amendments Nos 1 to 8, which constitute the bulk of the Committee on Industry’s amendments, which complement the rapporteur’s report.
Mr President, thank you for the outstanding way in which you have conducted the sitting. The Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party is extremely pleased with the outcome of the vote. We have addressed some of the things that had been preventing the development of the banking sector, but at the same time we have retained very important aspects of consumer protection and developed that too. I think that we have created a Directive that will enable increased cross-border trade within Europe in the future.I know that some people would have liked to vote in favour of provisions on mortgage credit, but I hope and ask that the Commission presents a proposal on this point, which is extremely difficult to regulate. My thanks to the President for giving me the floor, and for conducting the sitting so excellently.
Mr President, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, I would thank the Commission for the proposal on upward convergence of excise on tobacco. Parliament requested this a few years ago and the Commission is now meeting this request. In our view, the proposal is an improvement on the current situation and also solves a number of problems, including that of continuing to allow for exceptions, as is the case for Sweden now and the accession countries in future. For that reason, we believe it is a considered proposal. We did, however, table a number of amendments. Firstly, there is the issue of VAT which Messrs Katiforis and Wieland also mentioned. I share their point of view on this score, and that is why my group has re-tabled the amendment that was already adopted in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, namely to include VAT in the equation.Secondly, our committee was of the opinion that the issue should be clearly placed in the context of existing negotiations in the World Trade Organisation, for the latter plays a major role in this.Thirdly, we believe that a great deal must be done against smuggling. I do not subscribe to the rapporteur’s point of view that an increase in excise will, in itself, promote smuggling or, vice versa, that a reduction in excise will lead to a drop in the incidence of smuggling. I am of the opinion that completely different measures should be taken against smuggling, which are, in fact, the topic of debate in the World Trade Organisation.Furthermore, we have tabled an amendment on tobacco subsidies, a much-debated topic which is also relevant in this context. We have also tabled an amendment in which we state that, concerning products which are less unhealthy, we should be working towards a system, maybe not now, but in 2005, whereby the excise on those products would also be lower. We therefore support the gist of the Commission proposal, as well as the position which the Council has already adopted in this respect.
Mr President, the ecological disaster in the Danube reminds us of how closely linked all the countries of Europe are and how important water is to us all. Discharges from chemical factories in my own constituency in the north-west of England will end up on the beaches of mainland Europe. This brings home the connections which bind us together.This framework directive is intended to paint the broad brushstrokes of the policy for the next decades and there has been much panic over the details. It is important for us to remember that this is a framework. These brushstrokes are indeed very broad. It is easy for individual countries, for individual sectors of industry, to escape the effects which have been painted to us in recent days. There are many opportunities to hide. The reality is that the details of this legislation will be set out in daughter directives in months and years to come. That is the time to debate some of these problems of detail. The broad principles are surely ones we should be able to accept – the broad principles that we wish to reduce hazardous waste leaking into the groundwater, the broad principles that we should be aiming to ensure that chemicals, which we all need in society in all circumstances, should not be finding their way into our water system.There is a chemical factory in the north-west which wrote to me to say that we must vote against this legislation. I would have to ask them what chemicals they are putting into the water supply at the moment and why they are not broadcasting to all the residents in that area exactly what they are doing. This is something that they prefer to avoid doing.The principle also concerns water charging. The basic understanding which many of us now share is that we need to introduce environmental taxation to encourage conservation, to use the carrot-and-stick approach to make best use of our assets so that we do not add to the pollution or loss of a valuable resource like water.I want to refer to the political position here. The common position has weakened the stand taken by Parliament at first reading. Some of the NGOs would say that the directive as now framed is worse than useless. It is a retrograde step. This is an opportunity for us to improve the situation. We need to get ourselves into a position of conciliation. We have seen vote after vote lost. Measure after measure has come out of the Environment Committee. We have failed to achieve a qualified majority. Our attempt to improve the environment of Europe has failed. We need to get into that conciliation position. We need, at the end of the day, to ensure that we end up with a sensible, balanced policy of real improvements at a reasonable cost.
Mr President, as has been pointed out, this report is, of course, a consequence of the quite arduous work done on the report on Article 255 of the EC Treaty, which concerns public access to documents and on which we voted on 3 May. Thanks to the extremely strong alliance for transparency which existed, and still exists, in Parliament and in which Mrs Maij-Weggen and Mr Cashman have played a significant role, we finally succeeded in getting the Council and the Commission to endorse a proposal reflecting this House’s desire for as much transparency as possible.The legislation we adopted is deficient and unclear in certain respects but constitutes a first and very important step forwards in the fight for greater transparency in the EU’s work on behalf of its citizens. We also decided to review the regulations by January 2004 at the latest.In the same way as we did then, we must now take the lead in the work aimed at taking a further step forward. Transparency and public control are the bases for a democratic form of government and a prerequisite for people’s being able to follow, and participate in, public decision-making. The opportunity to access EU documents creates greater confidence and legitimacy, two things in short supply in the EU at the present time, unfortunately. When we adjust our regulations, let us not therefore make them too complicated. Let us interpret Article 255 as generously as possible and the concept of a ‘document’ as broadly as possible. There are exemptions in the legislation, in Article 4, but let us not leave the way open for new interpretations of secrecy or of classification of documents as top secret, and let us not construct unnecessary bureaucracies, either.It is important for people to be able to obtain documents to which they are entitled as soon as possible, as well as for documents to be available on the Internet. The Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party tabled amendments along these lines in the committee, but they were not adopted. I hope that they will nonetheless be adopted in practice.My group supports this report because, for us, transparency and public control are efficient and democratic, not bureaucratic and unnecessary. Through progressive and extensive regulations in Parliament governing transparency, we can show that it is we who are there for the people, and not the other way around.
Weapons such as landmines and cluster bombs are a veritable nightmare. Not only do they not discriminate between the military and innocent civilians, but after years of war they are still claiming victims among the population. These weapons must be taken out of the arsenals for good. Unlike cluster bombs, there is an international ban on landmines. It is in part thanks to the European Union that the use and production of landmines is decreasing, trade in landmines has been stopped and that there are fewer victims. However, as long as non-state actors are excluded from the banning process, there cannot be a world free of landmines.That is why it is important that the European Union also targets these groups with its policy and puts the topic on the agenda for the next meeting on the Ottawa Convention. Based on its experiences with landmines, it is good that the European Commission is now also developing strategies and programmes for unexploded ammunition from wars. These new activities must not, however, be carried out at the expense of the campaign against landmines; extra money must be made available for this. Many people also think that weapons containing depleted uranium also pose a risk to public health. The Commissioner referred to research that says that actually there is no reason for this concern but I share the doubts of a number of my colleagues as to whether this is enough to justify coming to the conclusion that we can simply carry on using these weapons. I am not reassured on that point yet. No matter, it is high time that we opened our eyes to the cluster bombs and that we finally woke up from our nightmare.
Tobacco growing plays a very important role, especially in the less favoured regions of Europe. About 130 000 landowners and 400 000 seasonal workers are involved in tobacco production and processing in the European Union. These figures alone are enough to justify and provoke a study on the social and economic costs of suppressing aid to tobacco, even before we get to the political debate on this crop’s future in the European Union. In any case, restrictions on tobacco growing in Europe would have no effect on consumption except to turn European consumers towards tobaccos from outside the European Union, which are of much poorer quality and certainly more harmful to health.Added to this is the fact that Commission document COM (2001) 264 of 15 May 2001 on sustainable development stresses that ‘political leaders should determine the pros and cons for other political contexts and take them into account. A thorough evaluation of all the effects of a proposed political action must include estimates of its environmental and social impact both inside and outside the EU.’As European Republicans, we therefore believe that the Commission should make a concerted effort to promote studies and research into possible alternative crops that would maintain the rural fabric in a sustainable manner. We agree with the draftsman, Mrs Redondo Jiménez, that the political debate on tobacco should be held over until Parliament has received an evaluation report on the management of the fund, with any proposed amendments and improvements.For the reasons given above, we say ‘no’ to the under-cover gradual elimination of subsidies for tobacco growing; we call for the current contribution levels for the research fund activities to be maintained for 2002/2003/2004, since agronomic research is today one of the most important ways of making tobacco consumption less harmful to health; and we support the amended report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
Mr President, when we were discussing the compromise version of this text, all of the groups felt that the step change in the Northern dimension that will take place on enlargement will entail alterations to regional policy. Therefore we would like to insert an overarching paragraph at the beginning of point 3, which reads as follows: 'adapting the general approach to the changing situation where partner countries become Members in the EU, noting the specific needs this creates for regional development and cross–border cooperation.'
What does the practice of education in the developing countries teach us? Above all, that good primary education is still far from being granted the priority status that it deserves. Good, free education is essential for development. Nine hundred million people are still illiterate. The Dakar objectives are in danger of not being achieved by a long chalk. For this reason, new impetus is necessary at the highest political level, particularly from Europe, America and Japan. There is an urgent need for a strategically developed initiative with a realistic timescale and more financial resources. Indicative programmes must be drawn up for each country.Up to now, the European Union has paid far too little attention to education. The argument that other donors are already doing sufficient is simply and demonstrably untrue. The cause for the shortfall in educational facilities lies not only with the donors. Many developing countries themselves give it far too low a priority. It is outrageous that in Africa twice as much money should be spent on military equipment as on education. If India continues to spend less than 1% of its GDP on school facilities, of course, development will never come off the ground.The report of Mrs Kinnock is excellent. Certainly, special attention will have to be paid to girls, early school-leavers, and also former child soldiers. The basic rights of children will only be respected if adults draw the right political lessons from failing educational practice.
Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, Council representative, ladies and gentlemen, I fully agree with everything Mr Salafranca has said on Eurostat and, in this opinion, I would point out the rightful need for a transparent response, which has been fully met by what the Commission has done and by the action plan presented today. It is worrying that we should continue to exploit this matter for political ends, blowing out of all proportion a question which is certainly not central to the life of the Union, while the Iraq tragedy strikes once again, reminding us of our inability to act and, what is more, our hypocrisy in the face of a war which was started to combat terrorism but which has ultimately served only to fuel it. We are not involved. We do not have our finger on the world’s pulse. Our times demand a great injection of political measures, giving Europe a soul and making it more than a wounded, helpless giant that some people continue today to want to see caught in the vice of bureaucratic neutrality: we need more politics of the kind proposed in Mr Prodi’s document, which he has addressed as a European citizen to his own country, first and foremost, but which applies to the Union as a whole and to all its political groupings, including the members of the Group of the European People’s Party, Mr Poettering, the manywhom you should be representing as well, who cannot sit back and accept any shift to the right.
Mr President, I have been fortunate enough to enter two new parliament buildings in the course of my political career. The first one was the Flemish Parliament around four years ago. In view of the fact that I was the official authorised to take responsibility for the buildings, I am well placed to draw comparisons between the opening of this building and the previous Parliament that I belonged to. I must say that I am in fact annoyed about the many shortcomings I have been able to discern in this building, with what I would say is almost a professional eye. I feel that the great interest in the building that is very much in evidence today bears witness to the fact that, to my mind, there was too little prior consultation with the Members of Parliament, with those who were to use the building. I think that there are lessons to be learnt from that for future reference. I want to make three points that may already have been made by some of my colleagues, but which serve to underline how important it could in fact be to bring about total change here.Firstly, the offices. I think our offices resemble a kind of glorified campsite. I think this is a classic example of the injudicious use of the space available. I therefore urge that adaptations be made, whatever the structural difficulties. But I think many of my colleagues will agree with me on this.Secondly, a great deal has been said about colours but I think that many psychologists would support my view that some colour schemes may produce severe depressive conditions, and that this particular colour scheme may be one of these. I hope not but time will tell.Thirdly, I feel that we are going to have to demonstrate greater efficiency and more streamlined procedures where the entrance to the visitors’ gallery is concerned. It has been brought to my notice that some people had to pass through five different security points this week, before gaining admission to the visitors’ gallery.And last but not least, we like to talk about transparency here. I believe it is important to talk about transparency, but I would also like there to be transparency as regards the cost price of the building, and I would also like to know what possibilities there are for recouping some of the costs arising from the building’s defects that have been noted here.
Mr President, Commissioner, I wish to add to what my fellow MEPs have already said by stating how gratifying it is to see the delight shown by Afghan women. However, we are also concerned about the fear that prevails at the same time. Afghan women have good reasons to be afraid, for we know that the Northern Alliance too has perpetrated crimes such as forced marriage.It is important that women and children should survive the winter. At the same time, it is important to proceed with the measures referred to in this House: full access to education and healthcare for women and young girls. We must immediately proceed on the basis of a rights-based approach. Afghan women should not have to beg for the right to education as a favour. Instead, this must be a right. In that way, they will achieve the dignity and receive the education that they require.We also need to earmark funds but, in this area, equality between the different ethnic groups is required. We are delighted about the outcome of the Bonn Conference, but the work must go on.I should also like to draw Mr Nielson’s attention to the special report prepared by my predecessor, Mrs Rehn, on the UN’s peacekeeping activities and ask him to note that there is a lot to do when it comes to the treatment of women by the peacekeeping forces. Women are needed in the peacekeeping forces, and an understanding is required of how to treat women who have suffered violence. I hope that the UN will support the proposal tabled by Mrs Rehn in her report to Kofi Annan.The issue of guilt also needs to be examined, that is to say who bears responsibility for what. It is the only way in which to bring about healing. I believe there is a lot of international experience in this area that we can draw upon.Last but not least, quite a serious issue, Commissioner Nielson. Mine dogs, which are extremely important in clearing away all this devastation, are also needed. I hope that the EU can offer support in this area, too.
Madam President, I must first join with the previous speakers in congratulating the rapporteur on his report, which has been unanimously endorsed. In particular, I am grateful to him for showing such sensitivity to the needs of the sector. The latter is obviously very important in Catalonia. I would also like to thank Mr Bautista Ojeda for being so receptive to the suggestions made by the Catalan regional government.I think it is worth recalling that clearly we are not dealing with one of the major agricultural or livestock sectors central to the common agricultural policy (CAP). Nonetheless, this sector extends over a million hectares and makes a specific and significant contribution in the immediate vicinity. It has considerable social impact too.In my view therefore, the request for maintaining support during 2001 and 2002 must lead, as previous speakers stated, to a permanent support regime per hectare. Consequently we are against Amendment No 10 tabled by Mr Fiori, because requesting support for 2002 and 2003 at this stage would essentially invalidate the report’s main objective.We therefore believe that as outlined previously and in terms of hectare as in Mrs Ayuso’s amendment adopted in committee, namely certified areas, this report presents an approach the Commission should certainly consider.
Mr President, while of course the liberalising thrust of the Lisbon process in the Barcelona Summit is welcomed, I would like to bring to your attention two warnings. Firstly, what we do not do, and what we refrain from doing, is as important as what we are positively trying to do. We should learn in the name of competitiveness to refrain from burdening and cluttering the European Union from excessive regulation or initiatives which are not strictly necessary.In that perspective, I hope the Barcelona Summit will turn its attention to the crucial issue of regulatory impact assessment. Too often, initiatives are launched without the full impact on business, on the environment, but also on consumers and administrations, first being fully examined. Let us all turn our attention to tightening up the hurdles which we need to leap over before we actually launch initiatives.The second warning is this. The Lisbon process – and no doubt this will be picked up at the Barcelona Summit – is now groaning under a whole series of targets. Targets are fine, but they can quickly undermine the credibility of the process if the targets are either not met or are simply met by Member States through a statistical sleight of hand. I would appeal to the Council and the Commission to be wary about implementing and establishing too many targets if those targets are clearly not always going to be met.
Mr President, unlike the Commission our Parliament is not really in a position to establish priorities. The main question at issue at present is whether we support the six areas of special interest as formulated by the Commission. The answer is yes, with the proviso that communication and energy should be added to transport.The European Union must concentrate as far as possible on those areas in which it has value added. A crucial element in this is a properly functioning government apparatus in the developing countries. If the essential tasks – maintenance of the rule of law, health care, education, infrastructure – are not effectively carried out, participation in the free-market economy is not really feasible. In my view therefore, the building up of administrative capacity should be at the top of the list of priorities.Even more important than strengthening the institutions as such, is the combating of abuse of power, corruption and unlimited force. The promotion of regional cooperation should also be given new impetus. It is better for us to do less very well than a great deal badly. It is a question of effectiveness. This is why the policy of the Commission and that of the Member States should complement each other. That is, it must not be a matter of Europe following the Member States or of Member States following Europe.The much-discussed internal coherence is also crucial to the success of this policy. In addition it is of the utmost importance that we can actually implement the priorities that we are now establishing, with the help of well-qualified staff.Reducing poverty in the world is more important than increasing one’s own wealth. Development cooperation must therefore be a major component of European policy. That will only be possible if this Parliament itself also establishes clearly defined priorities and does not get carried away in amending the sound report of Mr Gemelli. The Commission’s proposals now need to be elaborated further into a clear strategy. That must also be given absolute priority by our Parliament.
The members of the Venstre, or Liberal, group present in the European Parliament voted against Amendments Nos 17 and 18. Basically, we think that the Commission’s proposal is too expensive. It is too early, however, to tie ourselves to a percentage limit at a time when we do not know more about the political content of the future financial perspectives.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mr Lannoye stated a moment ago that noise is a problem with all forms of transport, but the problem with aircraft is very specific because it is so concentrated. In its communication on airports and the environment, the Commission mentioned a few things about noise, one being – and you also echoed this yourself – that the principle of subsidiarity applies to noise. In other words, it must be possible to implement at local level without the European Union having to regulate everything. I would, however, like the Commission’s guarantee that distortion of competition is ruled out. An interesting concept in the communication is the drafting of classification lists, not only for aircraft, but also for airports. This would mean that noise-sensitive airports would be distinguished from others and that certain activities could not take place at such airports but could possibly take place at less noise-sensitive airports. Mrs Van Brempt already pointed this out: we are faced with a dilemma.It is clear that certain businesses and a certain economic sector totally rely on night flights. If we asked them what would happen if there were no night flights, they are bound to say that they would have to close down their businesses, their activities would become pointless and they would no longer be able to offer their services. Our question is, therefore: how can we marry the two together? The Commission should then legislate against distortion of competition between different airports in different Member States. Mrs Van Brempt clearly stated what the dilemma was for the Belgian Government. It is caught between the devil and the deep blue sea. As it happens, the Belgian Government has taken a number of measures, but would it not be useful, for example, if the Commission were to compile some sort of list of good and bad airline companies in terms of noise, if it were to draw a distinction between those who do invest in combating noise, those who can present a good record in combating noise and those who cannot, those who do not try their best, and then combine this with measures. Because one thing is clear: noise must be penalised. Accordingly, it should be more expensive to fly certain aircraft and it should be impossible to fly certain aircraft at night for example. A total ban would be ideal, of course, but can we afford this and where could this be done? We would like to have these questions answered by the Commission. A European framework is lacking at the moment – and you say yourself that a framework should be in place, but when? When will this happen? We have a communication at the moment and shortly we will have the report by Mrs Lucas on aviation and the environment, but when are we getting legislation, when can we expect a framework which is sufficiently clear for each Member State, so that distortion of competition is ruled out? Would it not be useful, for example, to look at ‘best practices’ at this stage – to use a buzz word – so that we know what certain airports get up to? This would be some achievement. For example, at Schiphol, there is a kind of complaints desk for noise. Other airports do not have this but could possibly do with one. So why not exchange ideas between the different EU airports, where all of us are faced with the same problem? I would ask the Commission to speed up its process and not to wait for the legislative measure alone, but to set up other initiatives in order to bring people closer together.
Mr President, the Liberal group obviously endorses the text as tabled in full. Having said that, I must wonder, apart from the normal, accepted role-playing that goes on between the institutions, what good it will actually do and above all, apart from the ideas put forward by Commissioner Patten just now, what the Commission will really do. How dynamic will it be? How determined will it be? What involvement can it guarantee? I should also like to know if Commissioner Patten’s irritation at the Commission’s foreign policy might not bring about a certain change of attitude towards the issue that we are considering here.With regard to this matter, Commissioner, I harbour doubts as to the formal, practical will of the Commission as an institution, as the driving force for European construction . What you ought to do, perhaps, is to tell us quite precisely what your specific approach will be, so that in one or two months’ time, we will not have to say that the text on which we are voting has once again become dead letter at European level.I have two very specific questions. Paragraph 11 of the motion for a resolution suggests that we will be entrusting our parliamentary delegation with the task of studying the situation. Will you be producing a specific Commission document, in order to assist the work of our delegates? My second question, which concerns the very short term, is this: a special meeting of the General Affairs Council has been announced for 18 June, in order to prepare the dossier on the Mediterranean region. What exactly is the dossier that will be tabled next Sunday, concerning that region?This is the specific political follow-up that I expect, and which will perhaps enable you, Commissioner, and perhaps your fellow Commissioners too, to dispel what I called the climate of irritation where the efficiency of the Commission’s foreign policy is concerned.
Mr President, when it is normal practice to congratulate rapporteurs on their work, it is difficult to find appropriate words to use when something exceptional has been achieved. So I shall say simply that it is a tribute to the work of Mrs Miguélez Ramos that a report that attracted over 400 amendments at the committee stage has come to plenary with only 25 to be considered.Before dealing with the nature of the substantive motion for a resolution, I want to touch briefly on the amendments by my own group. Amendments Nos 3, 4 and 5 look to the international level. Amendment No 3 seeks common definitions and methodology in respect of fisheries subsidies and fishing capacity and effort and the interrelationship between them. Amendments Nos 4 and 5 are designed to improve the monitoring both of the cost-effectiveness of fisheries agreements with third countries and of fishing activities conducted in the context thereof.Amendment No 6 seeks only to soften the wording of recital H because of doubts that the CFP can actually guarantee those working in the sector living conditions comparable to those in other production sectors, although it should certainly assist in this respect.Finally, Amendment No 7 wishes merely to add recreational sea angling to the areas to which, along with deep-sea and coastal fishing and aquaculture, separate attention needs to be given. We hope that these amendments will meet with the approval of the House.More generally, we believe that the motion for a resolution has achieved a commendable balance between the demands of fishing as an economic activity and the need for conservation. In sustaining the principle of relative stability, and the six- to twelve-mile limit, it recognises the fragility of fisheries-dependent communities. In endorsing a move to multiannual and multi-species quotas, it promotes an approach to fisheries management that is better for the industry and the environment alike. It also addresses other issues of environmental concern, such as shark finning and the bycatch of citations. Further, it takes serious note of our responsibilities towards the developing world.Another of the aspects dear to my own heart is the move towards establishing a far greater input into the decision-making process by fishermen, scientists and conservationists. I add, with a touch of pride, that this is an approach pioneered in my own constituency, with the involvement of organisations such as the Scottish Fisherman's Federation, The Shetland Oceans Alliance and the World Wildlife Fund.The number of amendments at committee showed how many different and often conflicting views there can be where fisheries issues are concerned. The final report demonstrates just how well we in this House can manage to reconcile our differences. I hope that, as voted later today, it will remain something of which Parliament as a whole, the Committee on Fisheries in particular, and Mrs Miguélez Ramos, despite her modesty and her own personal reservations, can be justifiably proud.
Mr President, on behalf of my group I would like to say how pleased we are that this debate is taking place and I also welcome the Commission’s statement, which has a ring of vigour and decisiveness. As far as policy in Africa is concerned, the figures speak for themselves. AIDS threatens the long-term development of at least ten African countries. The epidemic there causes more deaths than do armed conflicts on that continent. Two million people have died of AIDS-related diseases, which is ten times the amount of people that have died due to armed conflicts. In the year 2001 there will be more than 13 million orphans in Africa on account of AIDS.At the same time, there is no, or at least not enough, money to pay for drugs in Africa. Of course it is not just an African problem, as the Commission rightly commented. The disease knows no boundaries. That is why it is our duty to do something about it, and I fully endorse what Mrs Maij-Weggen had to say in this regard.Accordingly, there are two issues I would briefly like to go into. Firstly there is the problem relating to compulsory licensing, which I believe will also come up for discussion at the WTO meeting soon to take place in Seattle. Compulsory licensing must not be allowed to lead to people in Africa no longer being able to afford anti-AIDS drugs. This really is a big problem over there. AIDS drugs can be produced more cheaply than is the case at present. That is an issue that needs to be addressed.My second question relates to the financial aid delivered by the European Union. I hear reports to the effect that not all this aid gets to where it is supposed to be going and that one of the reasons for this is that this aid, or at least a part of it, is distributed via national governments. If that is the case, then it would be worth looking into whether something can be done about this.On a final note, I want to add my voice to the appeal made by the Commission. I have in mind its appeal to religious authorities to play an active part in preventive programmes, particularly where the distribution of condoms is concerned
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, fear is a bad counsellor. I can understand Israel’s desire to protect itself, but the wall is inappropriate in this case. A UN report last September condemned the wall as illegal and charged Israel with unlawful annexation. You, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, are of the opinion that the hearings and decisions of the International Court of Justice will disturb the peace process. I do not share this view. Like Mr Cohn-Bendit, I believe it would be useful to verify to what extent international law is being violated here, and that we should not make an exception for Israel, nor, in this context, for Palestine when it makes mistakes. At present, we are talking about approximately 21 000 people who live in the area between the wall and Israel and who are being cut off from social amenities, schools and jobs. This will lead to renewed hatred and a new generation of refugees. How do you explain – I am a member of the Palestine delegation – to a group of people in Qalqilya, which was once known as the West Bank’s fruit basket and which is located near a small loophole in the wall, that everything is being closed off on three sides? That they are being cut off from two major water sources and from all the farms that should provide for the area? The town, with 40 000 inhabitants, is accessible via one single Israeli checkpoint. As I see it, something of this nature should be brought before the court. I share the view of all those who have said that the conflict between Israel and Palestine should be solved, but tolerating a wall and waiting until the conflict is over is not the right way to go about it.
Mr President, I wish to inform the House of the ban on Som Ràdio in the Balearic Islands. The newly elected government in the Balearic Islands, which belongs to the PP Party, has banned its broadcasts. Som Ràdio was the sole broadcaster using the Catalan language, which is the official language in Majorca, Minorca and Ibiza.A few months ago we talked about the prohibition of the newspaper Egunkaria in the Basque country. The Spanish Government bans newspapers and radio stations whose opinions differ from its own, especially when the issue is that another language, such as Catalan or Basque, is involved.Another example of disgraceful behaviour was the position of the Spanish Government on the European Constitution last Saturday in Brussels, which we find unacceptable and which my party and I are completely against. As you can see, the Spanish Government does not only ban the European Constitution.
We are very grateful to Mr Perry for this question because Parliament has in numerous reports asked for a revision and for the Commission to do something about this. We had a report on digital television where this same issue was raised. I cannot say whose name this report bore, I am too humble for that. So, there were a number of reports where we asked for that as well. It is ironic that we have a directive called television without frontiers while the copyright and the rules on collection societies are preventing us from doing anything.I would ask the Commissioner about this review and the study that he is going to undertake: are you also going to look at the differences in operation between cable and satellite that also exist in the directive and are also unsatisfactory? In your report will you look at the role the collecting societies for the copyright owners are playing in this field which also prevents the functioning of the internal market?
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office, I should like to begin by congratulating the Prime Minister and his colleagues on a successful presidency. It has been a first presidency for Sweden, and I believe both your government and state can feel a justifiable pride in a job well done.Of all the jobs well done, the one my group applauds most loudly is the clear-sighted, determined commitment which you brought to the enlargement question from Day One of your presidency. It has shone through the presidency, not just since Göteborg, but as an appetite to achieve right from the beginning. That determination has been handsomely rewarded. I know it was a delicate issue. But perhaps the shock Irish referendum result helped the politics of clarification, which I welcome. It is a very important message to the applicant states to say that we want to resolve this issue as soon as we can. The commitment to try to ensure that the first wave can participate in the next European elections as Member States is an important clarification and a very substantial achievement of your presidency. I congratulate you on it.It is also very important to acknowledge the progress under your presidency for the second wave of applicant states, the Helsinki states – again a wonderful tribute to your focus and determination. I would urge the Belgian presidency and those that follow to maintain that pace, focus and commitment. You are right, Mr Prime Minister, that we have now got to do some of our homework as well. Not all the transitional issues are just for the applicants, particularly in agriculture, regional policy and cohesion policy. Now we have to start biting some bullets; we have to start focusing on the issues.I hope that the Irish referendum will not get in the way of this process. We have until the end of 2002 for Nice to be ratified. It is a matter for the Irish administration to decide how to proceed. But in the interim this should not be used as a reason for taking our foot off the accelerator on this important issue.On a matter which has drawn a number of comments, my group fully supports, recognises and celebrates the rights of citizens in a free society to demonstrate. But clearly there were, in Göteborg, anarchic groups whose essential, primary purpose was to undermine democracy itself. You, Mr Prime Minister, more than any of your predecessors at any of these international meetings, went out of your way to meet people, to conciliate, to provide people with places to stay. For the large majority the issue was peaceful and proper demonstration. My group would like to extend its sympathy to the citizens of Göteborg on a very difficult moment in a wonderful host city.I have one or two other brief comments. On Macedonia, the presidency, along with Commissioner Patten, Mrs Lindh and Javier Solana have proved the value of developing an embryonic common foreign and security policy. The peace remains delicate. There is a difficult balance between peace and civil war, but the intensity of the European effort and the unity of the European effort is in marked contrast to the disunity of ten years ago. That is not just European progress but a measure of significant progress on the ground.Finally, regarding company law on mergers and takeovers, the presidency has done a wonderful job in fashioning a difficult compromise. I would appeal to Members of this House not to pull the plug on an important measure of economic reform.(Applause)
Mr President, I should like to apologise for Mr Sterckx's absence. I wish him well in Sunday's elections. I do not like nuclear options, to use the term adopted by someone in Mr Bolkestein's cabinet to refer to Mr Monti's proposal to force the postal market to split its activities. Only recently did I find out that nuclear options or nuclear explosions are not always dangerous. Thailand is about to decide on digging a canal right across the country, just like the Suez or Panama Canal. This mechanical excavation work would certainly cost 20 billion. The Japanese are very interested because this would save them USD 300 000 annually if oil tankers heading for Japan would no longer need to pass through the perilous strait of Malacca. The Japanese subsequently suggested helping to build it by removing a number of difficult mountains along the way by means of a few friendly nuclear explosions. This would cut down the building costs to 3 billion.As you can see, the nuclear option does not always cause as much damage as we imagine. The Commission has applied Article 86 before, notably in the early nineties, to the telecom sector. This worked well then. The liberalisation of the telecom sector is still known as one of the most appealing successes of European policy of the nineties.To me, Mr Monti's proposal is therefore aimed at the Council, which will now have to take some serious decisions concerning the liberalisation of the postal services. The fact that the EP is being by-passed with this proposal is not easy for me, and cannot be dismissed just like that. Nevertheless, together with the European Commission, I am turning my gaze to the Council, for they are the ones that matter in this case.With regard to the universal provision of services by postal companies, Mr Bolkestein once mentioned the compensation fund which could be a purely mechanical way of solving the problem of cross-subsidisation at the coalface. It will therefore remain possible, Monsieur Savary, to send a letter to the remotest corner of Provence. Does the Commission intend to table further proposals in this area? Would a compensation fund of this kind then be able to run parallel to the Commission's recent proposal?As for the plans to impose VAT on public post office services, I should like to point out that these post offices can also deduct the VAT from services they would need to pay for. In addition, the plans provide for the possibility of charging a lower VAT rate. With reparations and new-fangled proposals of this kind, we will not achieve a sufficiently effective and decisive policy in Europe in a hurry, not to mention the Lisbon objectives. Surely we wanted a dynamic Europe? Let us, then, try to send out a signal that the European Parliament will make every effort to give this economic sector in Europe, which is currently in difficult waters, a shot in the arm. I do hope that we will stand united and attach more importance to the goal that we want to achieve than to these methods, which may be needed just once to make true progress.
Mr President, I would like to congratulate the Commission on its synthesis report and on keeping up the pressure on the Council and this House to deliver the promises made in the Lisbon process. However, I would like to address one specific issue where the Commission and indeed all of us are rather weak: that is the issue of regulatory burdens. We need to be a little better informed about the kind of regulatory burdens which we might be creating wittingly or, more importantly, unwittingly in the legislation that we pass.I see in the Commission's synthesis report no more than four or five paragraphs on this very important issue. Regulatory burdens and the reduction of regulatory burdens is a subject which is thick with rhetoric and clichés, but rather thin on action and practicality.It means that as legislators in the European Parliament we are often legislating blind. We often deal with proposals that come from the European Commission which do not have proper impact assessments attached to them. We then table amendments when we do not know what the effect of those amendments will be.That is clearly an inappropriate way in which to legislate and not a particularly effective way to pursue the goal of competitiveness. Therefore, I urge the Commission to reflect on this quite seriously and not dismiss it as just an add-on to the Lisbon process but place it at the centre of its reflections and perhaps think of new institutional ways of creating an agency specialised in these matters. Commission proposals ought perhaps to be subject to proper impact assessments and, similarly, MEP amendments, so that we actually know what we are doing when we legislate in pursuit of this overall aim of competitiveness.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, although it is true that the text is flawed, as the Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market and the rapporteur have already underlined, I would still venture to suggest that this legislative resolution is an example of transparent, simplified and efficient Community legislation. After all, in the Community Customs Code, a successful attempt has been made to harmonise and simplify legislation in a transparent manner, which surely must always be the objective. I can only applaud the Customs Code, and I am, therefore, somewhat more positive than Mrs Ferrer, for example, for it indeed forms the basis of various areas of Community policy within the framework of Community action of the national customs authorities. The goal to achieve simplified yet quality communication whilst building in a sufficient level of flexibility with regard to the basic rules, thus improving the procedure for collecting duties and offering a higher degree of adjustment of the provisions with regard to offering goods at customs, meets one of the requirements of the single market, and that has been achieved in this case, so much so, in fact, that many countries have drawn on this model in order to speed up the process to be able to take part in international trade.In broader terms, the Community Customs Code is one of the most important legal instruments for establishing the amount of outstanding duties and to establish to whom these are due. The code forms the legal basis for levying these duties and, as such, one of the key instruments for protecting the financial interests of the Community and for ensuring the smooth running of the Community policy in different areas. In short, I believe I can safely say that the administration now has all the possible levers at its disposal in order to fulfil its task efficiently and within the timeframe provided, and I assume that the European Parliament can invite the administration to make the results of this legislative resolution felt as soon as possible.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the liberal group supports the tenor of the rapporteur’s proposals. How often do I read in the paper that one or other incident has occurred. It is by no means always serious, but still. It is therefore in the interest of safety that an effective, transparent system be put in place for reporting these incidents at international level, so that we can gain an overview and draw lessons from the data gathered.However, our group attaches great importance to the extent to which the information received from those who report who actually require the information will be given it.Secondly, it is, in our opinion, important for the anonymity of those who report incidents to be protected. That is, of course, to be welcomed, but if individuals who report incidents are guilty of gross negligence, it must be possible to prosecute them. It is not acceptable for people to be cleared of their negligence by reporting the incident involved.We are therefore pleased with the support which our amendments received in the committee. However, we do struggle with a few other amendments, and I would mention Amendments Nos 5, 6 and 7 for the same reasons, in fact, that we tabled our amendments and that we received that support. Amendment No 5, in particular, does not promote clarity, but as I said before: I should like to thank the rapporteur, and the liberal group supports the proposals on the whole.
Mr President, this proposal by the European Commission is the first attempt to adopt a comprehensive system in the European Union with a view to preventing and repairing environmental damage. I am sure everyone agrees that we are in urgent need of such a scheme.However much we agree on the principle, however, the more divided Parliament seems to be on its scope. How far should we go in protecting the environment and the obligation to repair the damage? There are numerous specific points of conflict: the precise description of environmental damage, the exclusion of certain industrial sectors, the extent of the polluter pays principle, the fixing of financial guarantees, the insurability of risks and the fixing of maximum amounts for repairing damage.Our rapporteur, Mr Manders, whom I heartily congratulate, has attempted to reconcile what are often highly diverse standpoints, and I believe the result is a well-balanced report and a well-balanced result which takes account of the many interests and economic sectors involved in this subject. That is ultimately what we all want: a good, well-defined, uniform European framework which provides a comprehensive approach to environmental damage with specific European standards and the same rules for the whole of the European Union; one in which everybody knows exactly what they must comply with.I have no doubt that many people, including our green fundamentalists, would like to go much further. The question is, however, not whether this is necessary or useful, but whether this is achievable at the moment. After all, the question then arises as to whether this is affordable or insurable for the economic sectors or whether it will remain incalculable for them. Those parties who would like to go much further must realise that they may be striving for the unachievable and that we may end up empty-handed at the final vote. We must not allow this to happen. The most important thing at the moment is to achieve a good general scheme for the immediate future in which we tackle the real responsibilities. We cannot afford to waste any more time.
Mr President, our objective in setting a framework for unit trusts and other UCTIS is to secure the highest possible safe return for our savers, which is why I want to address the issue of derivatives in my remarks today.I firmly believe that the prudent use of derivatives can help fund secure, safer, higher returns. Despite their image of danger, derivatives are usually used by asset managers as insurance. A contract that, for example, pays a substantial sum if, say, the NASDAQ or the CAC 40 share index falls, causes an extra payment by the investor if the NASDAQ or the CAC 40 share index rises. Is this speculative? Not at all. Imagine you have spent some months building up a portfolio of shares in companies in which you are confident: they have good management, good prospects and they are good investments. Then you become worried that the whole stock market is going to collapse, as it did in 1987. You have the option of selling off everything and getting into cash, but that would be to waste your research into the winners. It would also incur all the transaction costs of selling your shares and then buying them again after the fall. The solution is to take out a derivative which pays off if the NASDAQ or CAC 40 falls.But even with a tailor-made derivative or OTC derivative which would be cheaper, perhaps insuring you against a relative fall in your portfolio against the index, you would still have the portfolio and the shares, but you would have protected yourself against the risks of a collapse. In exchange, you might also have given up some of the upside of the markets. In this case, which is perhaps the most common use of derivatives by asset managers, you reduce your potential reward but you also reduce your potential risk. That is a desirable development in a soundly managed fund. History demonstrates that investors benefit from a liberal and light-handed approach to regulation. Heavy-handedness – a prescription of how private sector managers should invest and where they should invest – will merely reduce returns to savers.Pension funds which suffered from rules on where they could and could not invest, as required by of our government bonds, made returns of 5.2% a year, barely half the 9.5% annual returns made by free funds between 1984 and 1996. These are of course the returns after deducting all losses. Do not confuse a real concern for the interests of investors with a populist fear of the new and the innovative and liberal approach that pays off. This is what we should be concerned about here today.
I would first of all like to thank Mr Grosch for his efforts in the context of this report and his efforts to gain, within Parliament, real support for the approval of certain amendments or for their withdrawal.It looks as if compulsory professional training for drivers will soon become a reality. It is high time professional drivers took and were obliged to take follow-up training in addition to passing their driving tests. Road safety for drivers and other road users is important. Unfortunately accidents involving lorries often result in fatalities. It would be nice if we could reduce this percentage in future.The vote on this directive tomorrow will give a significant impetus to driving as a profession. Experience in the Netherlands has taught us that drivers who undergo professional training see their job satisfaction levels increase substantially. Driving a lorry is a profession with its own challenges. It is important for the sector that people who decide to become professional drivers remain in the industry. This continuity will increase if drivers become aware of the great social significance of their profession. The sector is itself looking for good professional drivers. After all, without transport, the economy will grind to a halt.I myself had submitted two amendments to this report on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reform party, relating to control of the quality of training and the opportunity to train in other EU Member States. I am withdrawing these amendments out of my concern that certain Member States will use this to follow a mediation procedure after all. I think that the fact that the report will be accepted tomorrow and will in fact be implemented is much more important. I hope that it will be possible to put it into force quickly. My proposals now simply go too far. Like Mr Grosch, I hope that the vote at the plenary session tomorrow will be favourable.
I and my colleagues have opposed this amendment because Leyla Zhana is insisting that she is not herself asking for special treatment or immediate release from gaol. She wants the penal law changed, as do we. Moreover, we believe that not only Kurdish, but all political prisoners should be freed.
Mr President, it is surprising and amusing that many of the details mentioned, which have been called into question and for which proof has been demanded, are given on the Mediaset Internet site. Can it be possible that Mediaset is lying? Then again, the facts that have been presented to us regarding the risks to freedom of information in Italy are so obvious and serious that it would be pointless to repeat them. I should like, instead, to offer some comments and thoughts on them.It is not wrong to state that there is still freedom of expression in my country, but the space for freedom of information has been greatly restricted. What we see happening, in fact, is something that is spreading to a dangerous extent these days. The lack of plurality of information in Italy is today becoming a lack of information, full stop. Even the case of a Member of the European Parliament who is facing criminal charges for colluding with the Mafia has been met with silence in the media. The breaches are so numerous and so frequent that they make one think of a closed, self-referential system tenaciously pursuing those antidemocratic objectives that were at the root of the revival plan of Licio Gelli and his breakaway masonic lodge, P2, one member of which was Mr Berlusconi, whose card number was 1816.How much space would be devoted in another European country to news of a Mafia trial involving the premier’s right-hand man, the co-founder of his party? A law to resolve the devastating conflict of interests of the Italian Prime Minister – and many of his ministers into the bargain – is now absolutely essential. We have all seen the obstructionism that has been deployed against the Boogerd-Quaak report in the last few days. They want to prevent it from being discussed in this House so as not to indict an information system designed to produce only approval for the person who owns or controls it.It is never pleasant to speak ill of one’s own country, but the most negative aspect is represented by the events occurring in Italy. We must speak out against them loud and clear, in reproach and condemnation.
Mr President, there are already some doubts about the viability of the nuclear industry in a liberalised energy market, as witnessed by the problems of British Energy in the United Kingdom. I would like to seek assurances from you today, Commissioner, that in no shape or form can this package be used as a bail-out for the nuclear industry in a way which would prejudice other energy sources and give unfair preference to the nuclear industry in the European energy single market. The coverage of the very considerable costs of waste disposal, for instance, should not simply be lifted from the accounting books of companies producing nuclear energy.In your statement you said you would now make sure that under no circumstances could decommissioning funds be redirected as cross-subsidies for the commercial operations of nuclear companies. Could you confirm that there will be no exceptions whatsoever to that and that under no circumstances can decommissioning funds be used for commercial purposes?(Applause)
Mr President, Commissioner, there are few things that will be as important in the world of the future as sustainable and environmentally friendly agriculture. From the start, I have supported Mr Fischler’s far-sighted ideas about coming up with proposals as to how we are to reform European agricultural policy. Unfortunately, these ideas have deteriorated and are still in the process of deteriorating. I believe it was a deterioration when President Chirac and Chancellor Schröder agreed upon a ceiling which was to have been applied, rather, as a floor for the costs of agricultural policy. I have to acknowledge, unfortunately, that, in my view, what we have arrived at here in Parliament does not improve the proposal but, instead, exacerbates it. I am concerned that, when they meet, the ministers too will make it still worse.Not even European farmers seem to understand what is in their own best interests. Opposition to the Commission’s proposal for agricultural reform among farmers, among ourselves in the European Parliament and among agricultural ministers must have to do with their not wishing to see the broader context. I do not intend to talk about the details of any report, but I intend to concentrate precisely on the bigger picture in my speech.We must remember that most of the world’s food is produced at costs that are not covered by today’s low prices on the world market. Most farmers in industrialised countries therefore require aid if they are to be able to produce food, and farmers in the developing countries need to be paid more. Aid for agricultural production in the industrialised countries increases production, and the surpluses are exported with the help of subsidies. That reduces prices on the world market. We must change the systems in order to create a healthy world market. It should be possible for prices on the world market to rise to a level that enables most farmers to produce food, and it is therefore quite obvious that all forms of aid that distort trade must be done away with. The EU cannot change this situation by itself but, together with the United States, we should be able to do a lot in this area. The negotiations within the WTO and the Commission’s proposal for agricultural reform are steps in the right direction in this connection.We must remember, however, that the world is not quite as simple as that. Even with fair prices on the world market, large areas of small-scale European agriculture would still not be competitive. We have tough requirements in terms of the environment and animal welfare. We insist upon food safety and quality. We demand worker protection. We wish to conserve the cultivated landscape and natural and cultural environments, and we want to improve social conditions in the countryside. The market could in theory pay for account to be taken of values such as quality. Our requirements could be financed through direct aid from society and, more specifically, from the EU when it came, especially, to matters of collective benefit. The route from high subsidies and collapsed prices on the world market to healthy trade and pricing must, however, be achieved via a change to the way in which aid is at present provided, that is to say through a decoupling of aid from production.That is where my report on rural development comes in. Unfortunately, there was too little money when the Commission drafted its proposal. Thanks to helpful and kind-hearted fellow MEPs in Parliament, I have obtained a little money from Mr Cunha and a certain amount of money from Mrs Jeggle and have thus been able to add a little more for rural development. That is because the proposed decoupling puts less favoured areas at most risk, and we must deal with the risks as quickly as possible. I believe that Parliament has come up with an improvement where that matter is concerned.Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, if, in the EU, we do not in good time modernise our arsenal of aid to agriculture – that is to say, by moving the aid from the Blue to the Green Box, or however one wants to put it – the WTO negotiations may, if they are to lead to any result that is encouraging in a global perspective, forcibly divest us of the weapons we use to protect European agriculture and the European agricultural model. There would then be nothing for us to have recourse to. Prevention is better than cure. That is something we Europeans should also appreciate. When they meet for negotiations next week, the agricultural ministers will hopefully realise that a poor decision, or no decision at all, may in actual fact lead to a disaster for farmers, the countryside and also consumers who want to see good food in Europe.
Mr President, it is very good to see you again, and I hope to visit you again in person in future. I am very pleased that you are now President of Parliament, but I should just like to talk about this directive. My group, or at least D66, voted for this directive to provide for the possibility of fair competition in ports and to prevent social dumping. That means that all parties, including self-handlers, must have the required high social standards and professional qualifications. In addition, the Member States and the port authorities, in particular, must lay down conditions in the field of safety and environmental protection. What is important is that the Council and Parliament draw up and present the directive in such a way as to rule out the possibility of social dumping, and also the possibility of rigid protection of one of the parties, and I hope, therefore, that the negotiations are productive.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, much has been said during this debate and it is obviously difficult at this point to add anything new. I will therefore insist on the aspects which the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party considers to be most important in this preparation for the Spring Summit.Firstly, on assessing the results so far since Lisbon, we observe that, rather than making progress – at least in relative terms – we have moved backwards. If we compare the levels of productivity in the European Union and in the United States we see that the European Union comes out worse. We believe that this is because we have not been able to make sufficient progress on a framework favourable to business initiative for investment. This is because, despite the declarations made at the successive Councils in Lisbon, Gothenburg and Barcelona, there has not been adequate action on the part of the Member States, which have committed themselves to making a series of reforms, of which the really important ones are reforms to make the labour market more flexible, to promote an environment more favourable for the creation of companies, at a time when growth forecasts within the European Union are low. Small and medium-sized enterprises are key, but it has been demonstrated that the bureaucratic obstacles to creating a new business are infinitely greater in the European Union than in the United States. This is not a favourable environment either for the creation of companies or for small and medium-sized businesses or, above all, for those companies which are taking a new direction by applying new technologies. Therefore, the twin objective of creating companies and applying and developing new technologies has also been significantly delayed and clearly, despite the successive commitments and solemn declarations, which were repeated in Barcelona, on the process of liberalisation of sectors which are still protected, in energy and telecommunications we see once again that they have not been fulfilled.I therefore hope that rather than making great declarations, the Brussels Summit will fulfil its commitments.
Madam President, the word ‘historic’ has been used a very great deal in connection with the write-ups from Copenhagen. It is beginning to feel rather trite, but there is no better word, for the fact that ten countries that are former Communist dictatorships are now being welcomed in from the cold and into the Community is certainly an historic decision. At last, the continent and its citizens are being united.The fact that the door was so clearly opened to Bulgaria and Romania was also historic, as was the signal given to Turkey. The EU is no Christian club. It is a union of values that defends democracy and human rights.Certainly, all summits are teamwork, but there are appalling examples of teamwork’s having capsized and of people almost having come to blows. When this has happened, it has been felt far beyond the closed negotiating chambers. There was undoubtedly a certain amount of drama in Copenhagen, but matters should never of course be too pre-arranged from the start. In spite of this, and above all in spite of the concessions within agricultural policy, the Liberals hope that the reforms are here to stay. The will was there. Everyone was prepared to compromise, but it is the Danes who must be credited with the outcome. Your objective, from Copenhagen to Copenhagen, has been crystal-clear all down the line. Despite the hesitancy on the part of certain people, you yourselves did not hesitate, Mr Rasmussen and Mr Haarder, but always sounded a clear note. While others demurred, like Hamlet whingeingly soliloquising ‘to be or not to be’ at Elsinore, you had the path clearly marked out. Your efforts will go down in history. As a liberal, I am very proud that it is a liberal government that has brought about these events.Political victories can only be enjoyed for short periods, however. After Christmas, the work now begins again. The EU is to be reformed. Powerful leadership is needed, as well as the political courage to dare to implement a number of the institutional reforms required. The EU must become more effective, and that requires more majority decision-taking, especially within agricultural policy. The EU must become more democratic. A common constitution, common visions and common leadership are needed. Referendums must be held. We must all show that the new countries are welcome. They will be no B team but, rather, be as welcome as we ourselves are. There is therefore a heavy responsibility upon us all, including the Greek Presidency.Finally, we must also tackle the issue of how large the EU really can become. We eagerly await the Commission’s report on the strategy in relation to the countries that in future will border upon the EU.
Mr President, let this be the end of twelve years’ debate of the ‘UCITS Directive’! In February of last year, we had the first reading. One and a half years’ later, in July, the common position was finally adopted, and now it is our turn.As you know, the first proposal concerns the UCITS itself and what investments it may engage in. The second updates and extends the rules relating to the actual management of the funds. Both proposals were broadly supported by Parliament at first reading. A total of 37 amendments were adopted for the two proposals. Of these, 30 have been accepted in full or in part by the Council. As for UCITS-1, the Council wholly or partially approved 20 of Parliament’s 24 amendments. Moreover, it has made a number of changes of its own. The most important concerns OTC derivatives, the use of which the Commission opposed from the start. However, Parliament considered that OTC derivatives could be employed more broadly, but according to stringent criteria. The Council adopted the same policy. In several cases, the Council adopted a still more prudent approach than Parliament on the issue of OTC derivatives and considered that investments in these had to fulfil more stringent qualitative criteria.Where comitology is concerned, the common position does include comitology provisions in the field of financial services. I nonetheless want to stress that there is no obvious link to the subsequent proposals made by the group chaired by Mr Lamfalussy.The 1985 directive created the so-called UCITS Contact Committee which was set up to advise the Commission. The extension of the Contact Committee’s powers to include new powers was foreseen in the original proposal. Parliament accepts parts of the proposal, but not the part concerning the adjustment of limit values, as adopted by the Council. In the same way, both the Commission and the Council accepted Parliament’s request to limit the scope of the delegation to the Committee. In my view, Parliament has thus agreed to the use of comitology and, moreover, successfully amended the scope of its powers. I do not therefore see any reason to re-open this issue at this juncture.There is nonetheless an amendment from Mr Goebbels, Mr Jonckheer and Mr Herzog. Should it be adopted, I am afraid that we should be facing conciliation and not knowing where it might end. The Lamfalussy agreement is in danger of being delayed and the UCITS directive of being halted in its tracks. That is something that no one can want to see happen. I hope that Mr Goebbels is able to share my view.Turning to UCITS-2, the Council has, for the most part, accepted the concerns expressed by Parliament at first reading. Ten out of Parliament’s 13 amendments have been incorporated in part or in full. The most contentious issue was that of the capital requirement for management companies. The compromise finally reached by the Council is, broadly speaking, in line with Parliament’s stance. Given how complicated these two directives are and how quickly the market is developing, the committee proposes a review of the rules within the next three years. There are two reasons for this. First of all, the compromise reached in Council is a very fragile one, and it would not serve anybody’s interests to open the Pandora’s box of detailed, technical or politically sensitive amendments. A conciliation would delay this review, for which there is already a need, and it might also stop the legislation from ever seeing the light of day. Secondly, the two common positions strike a good balance between investor protection and investment freedom. As I say, the majority of those changes we proposed last time have been introduced.There are nonetheless certain unresolved issues. In my opinion, these are better tackled in a wider context. The committee was kind enough to follow my recommendations. There is therefore only one amendment to UCITS-1, setting out some guidelines for a future review process. A ‘grandfather’ clause is also proposed, whereby existing funds should not have to comply with the new legislation for a transitional period. There is also an amendment to UCITS-2, seeking to align the review period for the capital requirement with the general review.Following the committee’s reading, I have been in contact with the Council, as recently as a few hours ago, and also with the Commission. Together with Mr Goebbels, I am therefore tabling a new amendment to reduce the transitional period. In this way, it will be possible to introduce the UCITS directive into the Member States by 2005, that is to say the year in which the financial action plan is to be implemented. The purpose of this is to avoid conciliation.The work on renewing the regulations governing UCITS has been going on for as long as twelve years and is a clear example of why decision-making within this area needs to be reformed. If Europe is to have a chance of competing with, for example, the American economy, it will have to be possible for changes of a more technical nature to take place significantly more simply and quickly. There is now a good balance between a well-functioning market and reasonably secure protection for consumers.Parliament has been proactive and shown an ability to act quickly and to compromise when it really counts. May we continue along that route! Well thought-out, prompt and effective legislation – that is what Europe needs.I want to end by thanking everyone involved: the Commissioner, his efficient and friendly colleagues and my fellow MEPs who have all really shown willing during this difficult period. I hope that, tomorrow, we can thus draw a line under twelve years’ work for the benefit of Europe’s consumers and investors.
Mr President, we must remember that the world is in disarray, and not only as a result of globalisation or the new international situation following 11 September, but also as a result of exclusion, privilege, corruption and favouritism.This situation affects Europe, Latin America and the Caribbean. We must therefore take advantage of this Summit in Madrid to consider the situation frankly and achieve pragmatic conclusions and convince ourselves of the need amongst all of us to ensure that the whole of society functions correctly and its quality of life is improved, and we must seek a road towards peace and stability on the planet, particularly in these two geographical blocks – the European Union and Latin America and the Caribbean – which are united by history. In this regard, respect for human rights and the rejection of political impunity and intolerance, as well as the strengthening of democracy and the incorporation of civil society into political decision making must be the key priorities of our future joint action, within the framework of respect for the sovereignty and independence of peoples.In Madrid we must, therefore, strengthen interinstitutional political dialogue in order to ensure a climate of trust and achieve suitable relations.
Mr President, the European Parliament is one of the most open parliaments in the world. The Chamber is often packed, even though more people often attend the committee meetings. The voting and the preparatory work can be followed on the Internet, and hundreds of thousands of visitors to the locations in Strasbourg and Brussels get a sense of how the work proceeds.On quite a few occasions, I have seen sceptical seventeen year-olds put the headphones on and be fascinated by the fact that it is in actual fact possible to conduct a debate in different languages. There is a change in attitude on the part of these seventeen year-olds. I believe it would be good for the legitimacy of the EU if all school pupils were to have the opportunity to visit us.We should be proud of this openness, even if there is room for a number of improvements, which are also under way. Once people have ceased to be fascinated by Parliament’s openness, it is not however always easy to understand how we work. The voting goes on forever, with sometimes hundreds of amendments. Instead of a vigorous debate in the Chamber, with quick responses and opposition, we have a series of long monologues in which we read out our papers written in advance, as I am doing today. Sometimes, the Chamber is all but empty, in spite of the fact that interesting issues are being debated.That is partly due to the fact that we speak different languages. We can, however, do more to reform the work of Parliament. Our president is helping with this by ensuring that we table political proposals and, with Mr Corbett’s report, we are taking quite a few very significant steps forward.As my colleague, Mr Duff, said, the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party supports Mr Corbett’s work and his efforts to simplify and tighten up the procedures and make them more focused. These are very important changes, and I hope they may be accompanied by a desire to be more alert in making use of the Rules of Procedure than we have been previously. On certain issues, there is of course great creativity when it comes to using the Rules of Procedure.We should like to take still further steps with a view to obtaining more lively debates and disposing of more issues that come before the European Parliament. Proposals were tabled earlier for creating a type of technical committee. Perhaps we can return to that subject at a later stage.Nor are we completely satisfied with the proposal for dealing with urgent cases, and we have therefore proposed a compromise in order to highlight these issues. As Mrs Kaufmann indicated, we are carrying out important work on human rights which has resonance far beyond the walls of this Chamber.We shall certainly have the opportunity to make new changes and to take a step further, especially following enlargement when, presumably, both the Chamber and the political groups will be more heterogeneous than before. It is therefore a question of finding a balance between efficiency and democracy.The greatest changes required if the European Parliament is to operate entirely democratically, responsibly and satisfactorily depend upon treaty changes, and we are unable to do much on that score in the present situation. It is a question of introducing the right of co-decision on a greater number of issues, of getting rid of the peculiar way of dividing up the budget and of dealing with the matter of travel between Strasbourg and Brussels.These are issues we can perhaps solve in the Convention. For the time being, Mr Corbett’s work is a major step forward for us, and I really wish to congratulate him on this.
Mr President, Saddam Hussein is evil. His regime is evil. His deeds are evil. We have seen what he can do to his people, and we fear what he might do to the wider world. He is totally defying the international community. As Commissioner Patten said, the world would be a much better place without Saddam Hussein and with a different regime in Iraq.Achieving this, however, is easier said than done. Furthermore, it is fraught with enormous complications and very, very great risks. Even the Pentagon has reservations about a possible attack. We must, of course, use all diplomatic and political means in order to get Saddam Hussein to comply with UN resolutions and allow the inspectors in and in order to solve this issue. There must of course be evidence, to which we all have access, of the existence of weapons of mass destruction and possible collaboration with al-Qa’ida. The EU must, naturally, stick together and insist that any attack must be subject to a UN Security Council decision.What happens, however, if we fail to find a political and diplomatic solution, if Saddam Hussein continues to defy the international community, if we do obtain proof, and if we manage to get a common decision in the Security Council? What discussions have been taking place in the Council? What forward planning has there been? I do not mean military planning. Rather, I am wondering what preparations have been made to support the forces of democracy, the Iraqi opposition and the Kurds in northern Iraq and to look after our relations with the wider world. I am absolutely convinced that these issues were discussed in Elsinore, and I would therefore be grateful if the President-in-Office of the Council could say something about them.
Mr President, it is more than 50 years since we adopted the Declaration of Human Rights, but we probably need to ask ourselves whether the human rights situation has in actual fact improved. That is not an easy question to answer, but we know more today than we once did, thanks partly to the many NGOs and journalists who constantly report on human rights violations around the world, and knowledge is a prerequisite for action. But there is, in fact, an obligation to act upon information, so that not to do anything is to let down those whose rights are being violated, and in this area the EU has an independent responsibility. As many speakers have mentioned, the EU has quite a high profile in the area of human rights, and that is both a good and a bad thing. It is crucial that we are consistent and specific. In relation to Central and Eastern European countries, we have had success with our policy, which can probably best be characterised as an iron fist in a velvet glove.However, that is not enough, for human rights violations do not, of course, stop at Europe’s borders. Therefore, it is also gratifying that we have focused on human rights in connection with the new ACP-EU partnership agreements. However, we must be certain that we are in a position to follow through and take action if it proves that human rights are being violated. If we have to introduce sanctions in Central and Eastern Europe, then everyone will be affected. The situation of the developing countries is quite different in this respect. If we are obliged to introduce sanctions, which more often than not will only affect the poor sector of the population, we therefore need, where developing countries are concerned, to establish a special strategy with regard to sanctions so that we do not only hit those we really wanted to help, as well as those who have suffered in the past.This constitutes a very large task for the EU as a whole and also for the European Parliament. We must be clear which sanctions are to be imposed. However, it is of course crucial for us to work with human rights more generally so that we can obtain some comparable figures, for Parliament is inclined to intervene as soon as we hear that a human right is being violated somewhere or other. When we go out into the world, we must try to be very specific and see what the human rights situation is like in the countries concerned. We can organise meetings with human rights activists and human rights organisations in the area and we can arrange for the final report to deal with human rights issues. I should like, in conclusion, to say that those areas dealt with in the resolution are important, but that they are not, of course, the only areas demanding our attention. That is why I have touched upon a number of other areas today.
Madam President, Commissioner, Ombudsman, I am delighted, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, to take advantage of this historic moment to thank Mr Söderman for his work in promoting values we hold dear. Like everyone else, I am thinking particularly of transparency and good administration.We note that, yesterday, the Ombudsman once again pointed out the misuse of data protection, that is to say of the personal data laws, to prevent the transparency we desire. I want MEPs to be aware of the fact that the Ombudsman is pointing in this case not only to the Commission but also to Parliament. We must turn the focus upon ourselves when we reflect upon how we work. I also see that Mrs Hautala, who is one of the rapporteurs in this area, is present in the Chamber. We are talking with forked tongues today in Parliament too. It is also interesting to see that, in the ongoing consultation procedure on data protection, at least four Member States have proposed significant changes. I hope that we in Parliament will support these changes when they reach us.When it comes to the European Code of Good Administrative Behaviour, I have to admit that I do not properly understand Commissioner Liikanen’s approach, the consequence of which is that the Commission is now unable to do anything. Like many Member States, we noted that the discussion on good governance had opened up possibilities. In Parliament, we have spent a long time studying the legal base for the proposal tabled and are left in no doubt that there are legal possibilities there. Why waste time when it is a question of doing something that will benefit people?Even though there is now better cooperation, I personally am extremely disappointed at the Commission’s response to our initiative regarding the Ombudsman’s statute. The amendments we tabled were very modest and not at all extensive. I therefore hope that the Danish Presidency can instead achieve some success in this area. The Ombudsman needs to be able to carry out his work in full.On Monday, Mrs Corbey raised an issue in Parliament concerning the ways in which the Commission helps people to resolve issues and solve problems in connection with the application of Community law. It seems to me that the Commission is at a complete loss here. The Solvit system, which will shortly be presented in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, has been introduced, while Eurojust, referred to by Mrs Corbey, is not being maintained. Citizens Direct is being launched, but without any real success. We have a lot to do in this area. It is very unclear how the Commission is to utilise resources.Finally, I should like Parliament itself to reflect upon how we deal with the complaints that come in. We shall prepare the legislation on the recognition of examinations later this autumn. It is an area in which we have received a great many proposals. It nonetheless seems as if many people prefer not to take account of these proposals but, rather, to stick to national legislation and not accept the signals coming from our citizens.What, in my view, is most gratifying about this debate is the fact that the Commission has declared itself willing to study the interinstitutional agreement and how we are to handle complaints, something which, as Mr Perry mentioned, the Danish Presidency is also prepared to do. There is a window of opportunity this autumn. We must use that window in order to improve the position of our citizens and not wait until the Commission takes the initiative. We should also study the Ombudsman’s draft Convention as it relates, for example, to recourse to the EC Court of Justice, for there are some problematic issues where the conflict has not been solved between the Commission, on the one hand, and the Ombudsman and Parliament, on the other.Finally, may I say a big thank-you to Mr Söderman, who speaks the same beautiful, and most easily understandable, form of Swedish as I do.
Madam President, there were no flights at all from Amsterdam to Strasbourg this morning. The flight was once again cancelled. I have drawn your attention to this on several occasions in this House. The number of flights, which was originally three per day, has been cut down to two. We then assumed that those flights would probably continue to operate, but Air France has once again decided to cancel the flights altogether. I should like to draw your attention to this. We all had to fly via Paris, Brussels or Frankfurt again, which meant that we were late arriving here, although we were at the airport before 8 a.m.
Mr President, I fear that we are in danger of losing the plot or losing sight of what this directive is about. It is part of the financial services action plan; in our Commissioner's own words, 'a key element in the creation of a fully integrated market in financial services, giving investors and consumers more choice'. The proposals introduce three key elements at a time when there is a change in control of a company: protection of minority shareholders, transparency in relation to bid information and regulatory supervision of the process. But what are we in danger of doing as a Parliament, by virtue of the amendments tabled?Firstly, we are being far from transparent. Some of the amendments seem to be a covert attempt to introduce some elements of a company statute through the back door. Secondly, we are adopting rigid structures and procedures when the recommendation of the Commission was actually light-touch, allowing Member States leeway to reflect national practice in corporate culture.Lastly, the issue of clarity: the lack of this is especially evident in the debate about jurisdiction, an issue of which I have a little experience. The common position suggested some form of split arrangement. Now we have a proposition that would lead to muddle, forum shopping, potential litigation at a delicate moment in a corporate deal. This is not helpful. Jurisdiction should be solely in the hands of the Member State where the target company is registered. This is fair for minority shareholders, transparent and, above all, clear. Indeed I would ask the Commissioner to consider whether he can accept my amendment on this crucial point.The Financial Times editorial today talked about bid politics: that it has taken no less than 10 years to get this draft and that we, Parliament, could destroy that in 10 minutes tomorrow by voting through misguided amendments. I hope that will not be the case.
Where the Italian Presidency failed to lay down the European Constitution, the Irish appear to be succeeding. We now have, unexpectedly, a unique opportunity of involving all Europeans in this process. We must give the voters clarity before they cast their votes between 10 and 13 May. The Council will therefore need to issue the text ahead of time in May, which is quite feasible.How decisive, however, is the Council? How strong, for example, is the will to actually get an effective grip on terrorism? Although the new terrorism coordinator, Mr de Vries, is undoubtedly the right man for the job, he has an impossible task if national security services decline to cooperate.We also wanted definite decisions from the Council about giving the European economy a shot in the arm by stimulating innovation, making the labour market more flexible and abolishing unnecessary rules. We received another clear decision: a committee is being set up. When will the Council at last take responsibility? I doubt as yet whether the report by the Kok committee for economic growth can make a difference. In the final analysis, it is the countries themselves that have to carry out structural reforms.IN THE CHAIR: MR PODESTÀVice-President
Mr President, the current situation lends a great deal of weight to the opening sequence of Roman Polanski’s award-winning film ‘The Pianist’, released last year, which showed a Polish family joyfully celebrating with champagne when it is announced that the French and British have declared war to go to the aid of Polish democracy in September 1939. The rest of the film shows the extent of the suffering awaiting the family.These images are useful in that they temper the confidence we might have today in a cause which, ultimately, is just, and our hopes for a democratic future for Iraq, and add a human aspect. For, as a last resort, the combat taking place will set soldiers from democratic States against a totalitarian State. And in the face of such a situation, it is impossible to remain neutral.Mr President, war is an evil, but in some cases it can be the lesser of two evils. The war has begun and Europe has been unable to prevent it. We must therefore do all we can, Europe must do all it can to ensure that this war is the lesser evil.
Mr President, on behalf of the, I am pleased to express our support and favourable position with regard to the report presented by Mr Huhne, concerning the 1998 annual report of the European Central Bank.First of all, we must congratulate ourselves on the process of introducing the euro. It is now a complete reality which is operating with total normality on all the economic levels envisaged – in the Member States, in the European Union, on an international level. The good leadership and management of the European Central Bank has undoubtedly contributed to this normality and we should congratulate it and its President since, during the early months of the establishment of the euro, when the initial approaches were adopted, they had to overcome – and they did it skilfully – certain adverse circumstances at moments which were clearly delicate at an internal as well as an international level. At that time – and I must insist on this – the European Central Bank displayed skill, good leadership and management and the ability to maintain the principles of independence.This very solidity, which has been demonstrated in so few months, should allow us to be braver, more decisive in some areas which have already been mentioned, which are in Mr Huhne’s report and which I would like to insist on. One of them is clearly the issue of transparency in some areas that the President of the Central Bank himself has already mentioned. The publication of the forecasts, the possibility of having access to the minutes of meetings and a global report on the economic progress of the Member States are elements which will contribute – as the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, by means of the intervention of its President, Mrs Randzio-Plath, has demonstrated, and as mentioned in Mr Huhne’s report – to the consolidation of the level of internal and international acceptance and, of course, transparency, not only with regard to public opinion but also with regard to the experts in monetary affairs.Let me end by insisting on the specific position of thewhich calls for, after the transitional period of two years, the publication of votes, the various positions taken in the meetings of the Executive Board and the macroeconomic models, which I believe would allow more convincing and accurate forecasts to be made by those whose operations relate to the European Central Bank.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should first of all like to express my appreciation for Mrs Zorba's sound initiative. We worked well together and managed, via a poll, to gain more insight into the finer points of the cultural industries. It is clear that there is much room for improvement, certainly at European level. The cultural industries are, after all, of great economic significance, and offer much scope for employment. On this basis, I should like to call for culture to figure more prominently in the Structural Funds; SMEs in particular might benefit from this. Culture is also, however, an expression of our national identity. In a united and, soon, enlarged Europe, it is important for us to be aware of this cultural diversity. Museums in all manner of areas are trying to accommodate this, but unfortunately, they are hindered in most European countries by the sometimes exorbitant premiums they have to pay for the exhibits on display. This gives museums in countries where this is not the case a major advantage in the organisation of outstanding exhibitions. This is, in my view, a clear form of distortion of competition, and it must be stopped; it prompts me to urge the Commission to map out the differences in indemnity regulations in the present and future Member States, and subsequently to table a proposal for more streamlined regulations.It is unacceptable for a united Europe to have an elitist group of citizens who are well-informed on what Europe has to offer in terms of culture, while others have to remain deprived of all the fine things that the cultural industries in other European countries have produced and are producing. Thank you. I should therefore like attention to be given to these indemnity regulations.
Mr President, our voting list does not seem to be following the same order as yours. That may be our problem rather than yours, but could we just take a moment to clarify? We did not have Amendment 6 or Amendment 30, so we are a bit lost at the moment.Could my colleagues help me here? I think we have lost the page.(Laughter)We have lost a whole page.It is OK. We will catch up.(Laughter and applause)
Madam President, I ask if Amendment No 3 has been checked for admissibility, as it is wholly discriminatory on grounds of religion.
Mr President, as previous speakers have said, precisely what to do to give regional and local authorities a higher profile and standing is proving to be controversial under the Convention.Many of us would want the Union to enjoy more direct interaction with regional and local authorities, because they are frequently more sensible intermediaries between the citizen and the Union than the more remote and centralised national governments. We appreciate that such a direct relationship postulates the federal nature of the integration process in a fairly dramatic form. It is appropriate that the treaty provisions on subsidiarity should be reformulated to reflect this.Liberals believe decentralisation is essential if the Union is to manage its common policies more effectively. More of a relationship with provincial politics will improve the quality of our supranational democracy.This report provides many of the answers, but the issue of the approach to the Court of Justice is still controversial. Thewishes to improve access across the board for the citizen, to improve citizens' approach to their constitutional court. This implies clear lines of approach for all democratic representative bodies, especially regional authorities with parliamentary powers of law-making independent of their Member States.
Mr President, on a point of order. I should be grateful if the ashtrays could be removed again from outside the Chamber. The President asked for them to be removed and they were removed. People stopped smoking out there and they have now been returned. I understand that somebody has ordered their return, against the President's wishes. As I keep on having asthma attacks, I hope they will be removed again.
Mr President, when Peter the Great wanted to make Russia more Western, he dressed up the Russian aristocracy in Western European clothes and moved the capital of Russia westwards from Moscow to St Petersburg. President Putin's westward-looking government has described the European Union as its 'natural political partner', and until recently Russia has appeared to dress in the clothes of Europe: the clothes of free trade, the clothes of political and civil rights, the clothes of infant democracy.The  Group welcomed this EU-Russia summit. We are right to look for political and economic spaces where our two societies can work together. Under the right circumstances, we welcome closer economic relations between the European Union and Russia. Easier travel is a necessary and important part of making this work.Russia and the Union share a common security environment and a high degree of mutual interdependence, so we are right to seek to make our joint borders more secure and our shared hemisphere more safe. We welcome Russia's ambitions to join the WTO and this may be possible, even if it is made more difficult by recent events.However, Europe is right to rail against Russian repression and governmental meddling in the lives of its neighbours. The issue of Chechnya will not go away, nor will Russia's refusal to ratify Kyoto. It is not enough to wear the clothes of Europe. Closer relations should carry the price of full subscription to modern European values, and at the very least we must continue to be critical and frank.At this summit, Mr President-in-Office, our position was badly compromised by those charged with representing us. The presidency's ill-considered comments on Chechnya and on the arrest and detention of Mikhail Khodorkovsky were out of line. Mr Berlusconi speaks for Europe and he should choose his words with care. His own presidency drafted a declaration last month that was strongly critical of Russian conduct in Chechnya. However, not only was there no reference to Chechnya in the summit communiqué, but the President of the Council even thought it appropriate to contradict Europe's affirmed position with an improvised display of bluster worthy of a cheap lawyer. In any case, why should we deny the difficulties of the Russian minorities in the Baltic states? They are nothing compared to the persecution of the Chechens.Internal security may be complementary to justice and human rights, as the President-in-Office said, but as practised in Chechnya it is not. We have condemned Russian action in Chechnya and the attempt to intimidate sources of political opposition in Russia for good reason. Despite their European clothes, it is not clear that Mr Putin's government shares our values of democracy, human rights, the rule of law and freedom of expression. If it does, why is Mr Khodorkovsky in jail?
Mr President, in my country fisherwomen represent all that is strongest and most courageous. I also think that this evening’s debate, once again involving almost exclusively women, shows that we who are taking part in this discussion may well be descended from these brave and strong women of the coasts.Ladies and gentlemen, political movements which have long supported the very principles found in this document have been mocked in many contexts. The movement which I represent nationally has long stood for the principles about which we are now speaking, but we have had to suffer a great deal of ridicule. It is important that we support the binding recommendations that there is a wish to introduce for Member States, so that we can get away from a situation in which the left hand does not know what the right hand is doing and in which fishermen are perhaps in even more danger of extinction than many animal species. We have an unequal situation with unequal protection of what is to be found in the coastal areas. We also have a situation whereby we want more sea traffic without wanting to provide protection.The rapporteur asked why our group opposes a binding legal framework, but the explanations she has given have not convinced us. We need a legal basis for the matter, but not binding legislation. We must rely on local action and joint local planning.
Smoking kills, the litany is becoming tiring. I will therefore take the liberty of irritating some people by repeating that smoking kills one in two smokers.There is no doubt that those who do not want to hear it are tired of it. According to the evidence, however, it does not scare people. The figures are most edifying: in Europe, 500 000 people are struck down by this plague each year.In Belgium, 33% of young people between the ages of 15 and 24 are regular smokers and 51% have smoked. More serious is the fact that a quarter of women have tried their first cigarette before the age of 15. In short, young people are smoking more and more, and currently no anti-smoking policy is capable of curbing this infernal trend.This is why I welcome the adoption by the plenary of the report by Mr Maaten which, by taking up the major anti-smoking measures advocated by WHO, proposes measures to the Council that would be effective in preventing smoking and prevent teenagers from being conditioned by cigarette manufacturers.This is why I am also categorically opposed to the sale of chocolate cigarettes or liquorice pipes: mimicking a gesture at the age of 5 carries a risk of registering it and getting used to it. The risk is established, the symbol is disastrous, and all for a quite laughable market!- Keppelhoff-Wiechert report (A5-0373/2002)
The situation in northern Uganda has been appalling for years. Does the Ugandan Government’s failure to exercise any military power result from unwillingness, from powerlessness or from both? In any event, the Ugandan troops that are currently stationed in Congo must move to that region, because they only have other intentions in Congo.There is total anarchy in northern Uganda, and the ‘Lord's Army’ does everything that God forbids. It is inconceivable that these incredible villains can continue to descend on schools and kidnap women and children in order to turn them into sex slaves or forced soldiers. Prisoners are forced to kill or torture one another if they try to escape. For far too long now, the international community has been standing idly by; the atrocities simply carry on without hindrance. The African Union is losing face by doing nothing, and it is high time that the Security Council got involved.Sudan has announced it will no longer provide aid to the ‘Lord's Army’, but my group is not at all convinced that Sudan will keep its word. To top it all, the threat of war with Rwanda hangs over the region. How does the Commission assess this threat of war?In addition, there is the question of what the European Union is prepared to do to protect the population there and provide humanitarian aid. It is high time that the appalling rule of the ‘Lord's Army’ was brought to an end.
Madam Commissioner, the EU’s employment policy is one of open cooperation in which the Member States set common goals, exchange experiences and evaluate each other’s results and employment policies. It is an open process in which the individual country itself chooses which funds it will use in order to achieve the common goals. We, in Parliament, should also like to see the process become more open by involving and engaging the general public more. The report we are debating today is about the implementation of Article 129 of the Treaty of Amsterdam concerning employment policy incentives. It is about appropriations to the work on employment policy over the next five years and about money for analyses, statistics, conferences and reports etc. Employment policy is to be evaluated in 2003. It will be the first open coordination to be evaluated, and the money for employment policy is also to be used for this evaluation.At Parliament’s first reading, we adopted 17 amendments to the Commission’s proposal, covering the following themes. We should like to see the social partners and local and regional authorities more involved in the process, and we should like to see greater focus placed upon the ways in which information and employment policy affects a broader public. We should like to see more focus on the equal treatment of women in employment policy; we should like to receive some further proposals concerning Parliament’s involvement; and we should like to look at the connection with other Community activities. Last but not least, we should like to see pilot projects to increase information about employment policy at local and regional levels and help develop relevant strategies. As a result, Parliament proposed an increase in the budget.The Council thereupon accepted a number of Parliament’s amendments, including those aimed at involving the local and regional levels and at involving the social partners more. Some of the proposals concerning greater focus on equality have also been accepted, but the Council did not want to accept some very central proposals from Parliament. Against that background, there was a great deal of support in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs for Parliament’s re-tabling those proposals from the first reading that the Council did not accept. A majority of Parliament has campaigned for a long time for local and regional efforts to be incorporated into employment policy, and we have pointed out that the exchange of experiences and methods with those operating at local level and working in a voluntary capacity could be financed via Article 129. That is because it is clearly characteristic of unemployment in the EU to be focused in regions and local areas and in pockets of poverty where there are islands of unemployment. Local efforts are central when it comes to getting people into work. That is why it makes good sense to talk about local action plans and about the exchange of experiences and information from this work.I am quite convinced that greater focus on local efforts will make all of us much wiser about the new avenues that might be explored in employment policy. We have supported local employment initiatives by means of preparatory action, for which there has been a budget line called B5-503, and it is Parliament’s desire that this initiative should be followed up and continued via pilot projects under Article 129. Perhaps the expression ‘projects’ is misleading, for we want, of course, to see a development of the methodical work carried out, that is to say analyses and studies and the development of statistics and methods. We do not wish, under Article 129, to finance projects with the project-oriented and experimental character of projects financed under Article 6 of the Social Fund. There is therefore no question of our wanting to duplicate things that are already happening under the aegis of the Social Fund. On the contrary. There are many of us who are happy about the open coordination method of employment policy, for it enables the Member States to improve their results in employment policy, learn from each other’s experiences and actually compete to obtain better results. There will not, however, be very much of that healthy competition as long as employment policy and the ‘Luxembourg process’ are as unfamiliar to people as they are at present.In many countries’ national parliaments, there is no debate on national employment plans. Nor are there any other activities that might make the process and the results better known and create more grassroots support. Is political coordination based on analyses and statistics debated by the same politicians, officials and experts at conferences around the EU really binding enough? No, let us obtain a much greater awareness of results and objectives, so that governments encounter much greater commitment and a desire for everyone to achieve the results obtained in those countries which have most success in employment policy.
Madam President, these negotiations were always going to be hard but Commission officials believed that a deal would be done at the end of the day because political leaders across the world simply had too much to lose by returning home empty-handed. It is a matter of huge disappointment that agreement was not reached and I very much regret that the end of the convention was marred by a dispute between Britain’s Deputy Prime Minister and the French Presidency over the compromise proposals he put forward.The fact that after Mr Prescott’s rather noisy departure, the Americans tabled new proposals, which came closer to the EU position, demonstrates that the French Presidency was right to hold firm. We were getting closer, but sadly time ran out. The fear is that the momentum has been lost and the American negotiators will change and we start afresh in May.The disagreement within Europe is all the more regrettable because my overriding impression of the convention was of a European Union negotiating as a closely-knit team, from a position which crossed party lines and united Member States behind shared principles, a shared outlook and a shared sense of anger at the refusal of the Americans to face up to their responsibilities as the world’s largest emitters of greenhouse gases.From all we have heard, we must assume that the US Senate will not ratify the Kyoto protocol, however hard we compromise. Therefore, we must give greater priority to bringing in and gaining the support of nations elsewhere, to getting emissions trading up and running, and to taking real action to reduce global warming gases in this Union. Let us hope we get agreement in May; in the meantime let Europe take the lead.The USA remains of great importance. Money talks in American politics more than it does within our Union. US industry and the oil companies are telling their politicians that they must reject the Kyoto protocol, whatever the American public say. My question to the Commissioner is this: How can we persuade American industry that it is in their commercial interests to support the protocol, so that they pull purse strings and pull the American politicians into line? How do we drag them kicking and screaming into the 21st century with all its problems?
Just to show that this question is not only of interest to Swedish Members of the European Union but to other nationalities as well, is this new procedure in the Council in operation? If not, when will it be in operation? In other words, when can I get my first document out of the Council?
Mr President, Mr Yiannitsis, Mr Prodi, spurred on by today’s debate in Parliament and the vote on the Commission’s position on the WTO, I would ask the Greek Presidency: how should we deal with the Mediterranean products disaster given the desire for the gradual dismantling of aid and support for agricultural produce? The desire to end support and to promote the free market is certainly positive, but how can we pursue this objective gradually, taking into account on the one hand, the needs of developing countries, and on the other, the needs of Mediterranean countries which would surely suffer severe, inestimable damage, owing to sudden and excessive liberalisation and the withdrawal of support? This is a subject which I think the Presidency of a Mediterranean country should address, and should be of particular importance to it, not least because 2010 is not far off and the free market area is an appointment we cannot miss, but one for which we are making inadequate preparations. We should initiate a major debate and large awareness campaign throughout the Union on this subject.A final remark on the European research area, which greatly concerns me: our economy is indissolubly linked to our ability to intensify research, but many small-sized, very small businesses remain outside the Sixth Framework Programme, not because the Programme itself requires it, but because they cannot manage to take advantage of this opportunity by themselves. I would call for an incentive to be considered for small-sized business combinations, especially in circumstances where there is little inclination to plan and make arrangements together.
Mr President, I had forgotten to thank all my colleagues for an enjoyable collaboration, but Commissioner Busquin has also forgotten something. Mrs Quisthoudt-Rowohl asked very clearly what the criteria are for prioritisation. This is not the first time we have asked this; we put the same question at the two previous meetings of the Industry Committee. We do not want to be told that they are general criteria. We asked for a clear description of the criteria for research priorities. We as a committee would very much like an answer.
Mr President, Mr Maystadt, I should like to thank you, Mr Maystadt, very much for the kindness and readiness to help which you and your colleagues have shown to me and the committee. It made the work considerably easier. I also wish to thank my colleagues.The role of the EIB has been of topical interest in the debate in recent years, and criticisms have been made. These have mainly been targeted at deficiencies when it comes to environmental issues, openness and transparency. The EIB has understood the criticism, and significant changes have taken place. For this, you, Mr Maystadt, and your colleagues deserve our recognition.The analysis for the year is in many respects a follow-up to the sterling work carried out a year ago by Mr Lipietz. A number of the views put forward at that time are being repeated now. As is well known, the most important issue for the EU is enlargement. This involves a fundamental change constituting a major challenge both for the candidate countries and the current Member States.Today, most EIB loans go to different types of regional development project within the EU. That is certainly fully compatible with Statutes of the EIB, but future enlargement makes it necessary to reconsider this distribution of resources. There must be an increase in the future Member States’ share of the total loans.Solidarity on the part of the EU must also, of course, extend to include third countries that until now have been recipients of EIB loans. Among these are the Balkan countries, the Mediterranean countries and the ACP countries. Now it is also Russia’s turn. There is also a need for discussion concerning which less developed countries the EIB is mandated by the Council to support and concerning whether, for example, the 49 least developed countries are not in fact in greater need than the ACP countries traditionally supported by the EU.In the information society, economic growth and an improved standard of living are not only the results of constructing new roads and factories, but also of education, innovation, new technology, e-commerce and the development of other knowledge-intensive sectors. In my view, this has to be reflected to a greater extent in the EIB’s activities.It is important that the EIB should continue to strengthen its support for small and medium-sized enterprises. There are clear opportunities for growth in this area. The EIB needs to become more active in making SMEs more aware of the possibilities that already exist for granting such loans.From having been a rather closed institution, the EIB has begun to change its attitude to information and transparency. Contact with democratically elected representatives at local and regional levels is important. There is a knowledge of the projects at local level. Contact with non-governmental organisations has improved, and the bank’s web site has also improved. The EIB has published a list of projects at the assessment stage. In my opinion, it would be good if all the public documents from the internal evaluation unit were published on the Net.As matters stand, the EIB is supervised by its Board of Governors, that is to say by the 15 Finance Ministers, but it lacks prudential supervision by a competent authority. The committee has discussed the possibility of letting the European Central Bank, or ECB, exercise supervision over the EIB because the EC Treaty provides for the Council to give the ECB specific tasks of prudential supervision. If the Council does not want to give the ECB this remit, the issue should be clarified at the next Intergovernmental Conference, with the objective of establishing proper prudential supervision of the EIB’s activities.In order to improve the way in which the Bank fulfils its obligation to render accounts, the committee proposes that the external Auditors’ Committee forward its findings to the European Parliament, as well as to the EIB’s Board of Governors. Mention might be made of the fact that the EIB has already shown a willingness to cooperate more closely with OLAF.The environment is the issue which the NGOs are most interested in. These issues received much attention in the Lipietz report last year. I believe that the EIB has become more aware of environmental issues and that the Bank’s support for environmental projects has increased considerably.Another key factor is the EIB’s environmental assessment capacity. At present, the EIB has only one person responsible for coordinating environmental issues, while the project teams are composed of engineers and economists who have received additional environmental training. In my opinion, more staff are required in this area. More trained environmental experts should be appointed or contracted to review the environmental impact assessments correctly.There are, therefore, many demands upon the European Investment Bank. If all of these needs are to be met, it is necessary to increase the capital of the Bank. In line with what applies to commercial banks able to handle greater risks, the Member States should, for example, consider reviewing the ratio of capital borrowed by the Bank to capital of its own, with the purpose of including the EIB’s reserves.Mr President, I should like to welcome the Commissioner to the House.Finally, I want to comment on the amendments that have come in. I am able to support Amendments Nos 1, 3, 4 and 6 from Mr Lipietz etc. They do not change the content of the report but highlight the environmental issues and the issues concerning openness and transparency. I cannot, however, support Amendment No 2, which I find unnecessarily far-reaching. I am only able to support Amendment No 5 as a supplement to Paragraph 30.
Mr President, you do not have to be an implacable opponent of GMOs – and I am not – to challenge the undiluted advocacy of them in this report. Many Liberal Democrats will be challenging the report in the vote tomorrow.We want to see a reduction in the use of pesticides and herbicides. We want to see insects and wild plants flourish in our countryside. We want sustainable agriculture in developing nations. But we need to know that the proposed solution is not the cause of even greater problems.We hear claims from the manufacturers, intent as they are with stuffing their pockets with gold and making sure that farmers across the globe are locked into their supply chain. But where is the scientific evidence about the medium- and long-term effects of GM crops upon biodiversity? Who is going to compensate organic producers whose crops become contaminated and lose their value? We need answers to these questions before we open the floodgates.The jury is still out regarding GM crops and, given the irreversible nature of these decisions, there is no sound basis for making claims that biotechnology will be the answer to all our problems.
Mr President, whereas, in the rest of Central and Eastern Europe, considerable progress has been made when it comes to freedom of the press, matters have, as we have mentioned, taken a wrong turn in both Russia and Belarus. As the Commissioner said earlier, these retrograde steps are in danger of having a harmful effect upon developments in the rest of the region. It is deeply worrying that, in recent years, an average of ten journalists per year have been murdered in the two countries. They have typically been journalists in the process of investigating events which those in power did not want to be discovered. The authorities rarely have much desire to throw light on such matters. Parliament should support the recommendations by the International Federation of Journalists, or IFJ, which rightly points out that there is a need for the international community to be much more vigilant in monitoring and protesting against the infringements of press freedom that take place. That applies when. through legislation, governments attempt to prevent the operation of independent media that are critical of them, as happened, for example, with what was termed an ‘information law’ in Belarus. It also applies when, in specific cases, governments restrict the freedom of the press, as happened, for example, in the case of the journalists Nikolai Markevich and Pavel Maozheiko who took the liberty of criticising President Lukashenko during the presidential election campaign in Belarus and were given severe sentences as a result.We have clearly expressed our rejection of laws which restrict the freedom of the press, and we must protest against specific infringements of press freedom wherever in the world they may occur, including Russia and Belarus. We must step up our monitoring of what is happening in those two countries when it comes to pluralism and freedom of the press. Over and above that, the international community should also do a very great deal more to support projects aimed at promoting the professionalisation of the media through the training of those who work in the industry and through giving the industry’s organisations a more significant role in democratic development.
Mr President, combating social exclusion is a political desideratum we can all support, but what is to be understood by social exclusion and how is it best to be combated? What must the EU’s role be? It is the answers to such questions that we shall find in this programme, designed to promote cooperation on the part of the Member States in combating social exclusion. The idea is that all interested and concerned parties should be involved in a type of work in which the individual countries describe the extent of social exclusion and their efforts to combat it. This will form the background against which we shall acquire a more common framework of understanding, for the concept of social exclusion is not so simple to define. When we think of the long-term unemployed – young as well as old – do we not think of physically or mentally handicapped people, of the mentally ill and of the poor and people with limited means? No doubt we each of us have our own particular ideas about what the concept should cover. What we lack is a common definition.The Commission experimented with a definition in its consultation document for the Lisbon Summit, proceeding on the basis that the excluded are those who have an income of less than 60% of average earnings in the country concerned. The governments of the Member States did not accept this definition, which is also rather simplistic and unduly bland. We need a more detailed description of the problem areas. The very open approach adopted by the Council to the issue is, in my view, quite correct. There is a need to gather statistics, prepare analyses and, by means of conferences and other devices, create greater common appreciation of what we understand to mean by social exclusion. With regard to the actual report, Mrs Figueiredo wants to see the word ‘poverty’ introduced into the legislative text. This is something to which my group is generally opposed for technical reasons, namely the issue of what the basis would be in terms of the Treaties. We recognise, of course, that poverty is a source of social exclusion, as is also stated in the text. I believe we are all agreed about that. Parts of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party also have reservations about increasing the appropriation and inserting a reference to the focus group into the legislative text, but we are otherwise able to support Mrs Figueiredo’s report.
Mr President, theGroup can never approve of the death penalty, wherever in the world it is imposed. It is, of course, that much more repugnant when journalists are in danger of being executed just for doing their job.In January, the newspaper Frontier Post published a reader’s letter, following which the newspaper’s staff were taken into custody and accused of blasphemy. These individuals’ lives are now at risk. Fundamentalists have set fire to the newspaper’s offices in Peshawar.This event is a tragic illustration of developments in Pakistan where freedom of expression and human rights are not respected. The country is now becoming ever more marginalised in the world community. The Islamic laws, like the military’s support for the Taliban régime in Afghanistan, are creating alarm. The situation in Pakistan is very disquieting.What does the Commission intend to do in order to support those groups which are working to promote human rights and to establish the principles of the constitutional state?
Mr President, I naturally respect Commissioner Byrne’s view, recommending the committee procedure. However, what we are aiming at is not to delay the handling of this matter but to be able to conduct a debate here for, on this issue as on many others, there is a lack of scientific clarity.Yesterday in Stockholm, I met a representative of the American Department of Agriculture, who did not take the European view of science. In this Chamber, we need, then, to debate issues which are not only scientific but are also about ethical stances and the precautionary principle. It is not, then, about postponing dealing with this issue. Rather, the aim is to obtain a more thorough political debate.
Mr President, I would like to congratulate Commissioner Bolkestein warmly on the initiative he has shown, the energy he has displayed and the success he has achieved in respect of the European Community patent.I would like to ask him four questions. As I understand it, some Commissioners, as well as people other than Commissioners, have problems with the proposed language system. I am not fanatical about languages, but I do wonder why there should be three languages and not five, as is the case in the Community Trademark Office. Would this cause a real problem?Secondly, the decision to convert the office in Munich into an EU agency has to be approved unanimously by fifteen governments. Is that a problem?Thirdly, on the position of the European Parliament, we do not really have much of a say. Does this mean that the European Parliament, which has worked harder than anyone else to achieve a European Community patent, will not be involved, or at least be updated in good time and on a regular basis?Finally, what is the latest on the future expansion of the Community patent?
Mr President, this is an important debate for it is the first time we have come to discuss the European Central Bank’s report. The fact that President Duisenberg is present serves to underline the special relationship that the ECB has with our Parliament. The Liberals are satisfied with the ECB’s report and with the four proposals put forward by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs for there to be more transparency in the bank’s dealings. But we are disappointed that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs has shown itself unwilling to take one step more towards achieving still greater openness, hence my group has submitted a number of amendments to this end. I refer in particular to the publication of votes and the voting behaviour of each individual member of the Governing Council. We believe that this could only strengthen, not weaken the independence of the members. After all, the ex officio attendance of the Council of Ministers and the European Commission means that the national governments too are now in a position to know how the members vote and are able to bring pressure to bear at will, but then this is done completely unverifiably and behind closed doors.We do not doubt the integrity of the members of the Governing Council and openness is, we think, the best way in which to guarantee greater integrity. We have no time for the argument that members could not then change their minds. Of course they can if, for example, circumstances changed or new arguments were put forward. It may well be that their voting behaviour would initiate debate, but we are sufficiently reassured that the members of the Council have the fortitude to deal with this.Greater openness is a sign of strength and inspires confidence. We consider this to weigh more heavily than any possible risks. What is more, publication would bring the Bank more into line with the Federal Reserve Bank in the United States and the Bank of Japan. Why should we Europeans act as if we have something to hide? Surely that is only going to weaken confidence in the euro?Mr President, as liberals we are very much in favour of the ECB’s being independent and we value the part the President has to play in upholding this. But we believe that greater openness would reinforce the independence and authority of the ECB and request that Parliament supports moves to this end.
Mr President, like many British Members, I live in two worlds. One is the place that I read about in our national newspapers. Some of them, at least, feed their readers a diet of lies and half-truths to whip up hatred of all things European. And the other is here; the place which actually exists, where I find myself working amongst colleagues and others trying to make this continent a better place for its citizens.This draft directive belongs to the second of these two worlds. Its simple aim is to cut pollution and improve the air we breathe, which circulates from one country to another without respect to national boundaries. Who can be against that?The public information insisted upon in the draft directive is vital and gives the opportunity to back up legal measures with the right of the public to name and shame those governments which fail to take the necessary measures to comply with this directive. And, if we fail to achieve the targets for reducing benzene and carbon monoxide emissions, it will not be the fault of industry. They have done their part through technological change. It will be the fault of governments for not having the political courage to curb the use of cars in our cities.The Liberal Democrats welcome this measure. I anticipate us supporting all the amendments which have been tabled. We are pleased to be sending a strong and practical message to eurosceptics everywhere that we are in Europe to make this continent a better place for us all.
The Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party voted for this report without any enthusiasm. It concerns principally the marketing in the Union of two new sweeteners, sucralose and salt of aspartame-acesulfame, two substances whose contribution to health, in particular the health of diabetics and the obese, should be emphasised.Theregrets the adoption, by one vote, of Amendment No 4, which calls for a reassessment of the authorisation of aspartame and improved, specific labelling for products containing this sweetener. This was contrary to the opinions given by the European Scientific Committee on Food, an entirely independent body, and several national bodies, which confirmed the harmlessness of aspartame.TheGroup, which is in favour of natural law, has thus been emulated by thes in passing on the rumours circulating on the Internet with regard to the risk posed by this substance.I would add that sweeteners (which are also found in sweets and chewing-gum) are not harmful to teeth. And therein – as confirmed by every European dentist – lies the real revolution in relation to traditional sugar, which plays havoc with our children’s teeth.Having said that, before discussing this matter, we must be aware that the real problem posed by sweeteners is not their alleged toxicity but the risk of nurturing this taste for sugar, which is a true sign of our times.- Report Nobilia (A5-0105/2003)
I voted for 'Opt Out'. The opposite, an 'Opt-In' regime for Europe, would be entirely ineffective. If the EU legislates to try to restrict the sending of emails, whether for marketing, or fundraising, or political messages, the emails will still be sent to receivers within the EU – but from outside the EU. Indeed, I am tempted by the thought of setting up a little business in somewhere sunny like a Carribean island from where I would spray unlimited emails into the EU from EU businesses in return for a nice fat fee. This business could not exist in the EU. The well-meaning EU, if it chooses 'Opt In', will do two harmful things : it will handicap EU-based businesses against their worldwide competitors, and it will transfer jobs outside the EU. The road to hell, they say, is paved with good intentions. 'Spam' needs to be controlled – but it can only be controlled by global legislation and cooperation.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mr Kirkhope for his excellent report. There is no doubt in anybody’s mind: the physical and emotional integrity of children and the protection of victims of sexual crimes are of fundamental importance and must lie at the heart of the Union's concerns. Despite earlier initiatives by the Commission and Parliament, the misuse of the Internet and its harmful and illegal content have only increased, and it is time and again apparent how difficult it is to combat child pornography.What exactly needs to be done in order to combat child pornography effectively, especially on the Internet? First of all, we need to set up an easily accessible and recognisable contact point. In fact, the Netherlands was the first country to set up such a contact point back in 1996, on the initiative of the Internet providers.Secondly, for the purposes of enforcement, police forces and the judiciary need more expertise regarding the Internet and ancillary digital technology. This is simply lacking. Officials need to be trained well, otherwise they will be unable to combat child pornography effectively.Lastly, the penalties must be harmonised in Europe and must be increased. If not, the Internet will remain a threat and it will never be the challenge which it could be.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first I would like to thank everyone for their active involvement in preparing this report. The subject gave rise to some lively debate in committee and there were some good amendments to the report. The representatives of the Commission also brought their input to the discussion.I am delighted that the committee was in full agreement with the main aims of my report. In my opinion, the Union’s economic, social and territorial cohesion is an aim that is as essential as the single market or monetary union. The forthcoming enlargement is a major challenge, and it will also bring pressure for reform in the administration of regional policy and the Structural Funds. The purpose of this report is to analyse the problems of practical implementation and put forward proposals on how the operation of the Structural Funds might be improved within the framework of the existing rules and what facts should be taken into account in preparing the next reform. The report brings a practical viewpoint to the debate on regional policy kindled by the Commission.In order to obtain background information for my report, I sent a bulky questionnaire to a number of regions in each Member State. Replies have come in from almost every Member State, and, as a result, I learnt of the practical experience gained, directly from the regions and people who had implemented programmes.Now I wish to focus on the report’s most important conclusions. The first is the increase in effectiveness and results. In the practical implementation of the Structural Funds one should be aiming at effective and result-oriented use of appropriations, execution of projects according to timetable, and optimum project quality. In the regions, the administration of the Structural Funds is often felt to have become more difficult, and bureaucracy seems to have increased. The regions feel the financing provisions are complicated, partly unclear and open to interpretation, although the aim has certainly been otherwise. Funding should be channelled as directly as possible to the regions, which should be allowed to differentiate themselves from one another in order to be able to make effective use of the aid from the Structural Funds. With cooperation from the regions, Member States and the Union, administration should be improved so that the right actions target the right regions at the right time in terms of getting results. Management and its follow-up must be flexible and proportionate to the size of the programmes or projects. The n+2 rule for financing must be kept in force.The key aim of the report is the simplification and clarification of practices and administration, and increased results. The Court of Auditors has also criticised the complicated practices associated with the Structural Funds and called for simplification and better results, and this has also been the Commission’s aim, although there is still much to be done regarding this both by the Commission and the Member States.The second conclusion of the report was that programmes should not take so long to get started. The new programming period has got off the ground very slowly, with programmes taking as much as two years to be approved. The Member States have not been able to forward their documents on time, and the Commission was slow to process documents. Simplification and clarification will also help to avoid delays. As a possible remedy, the report suggests separating the periods covered by Objective Programmes and Community initiatives so that their preparation is not scheduled for the same time. In this way there would be more preparation time for both the Commission and the regions and the sort of delays that are occurring at present would not arise as we move into the next programming period.The third important conclusion of the report is that the principle of additionality should be applied. The Union’s regional policy has weakened the situation where EU funding replaces national funding: the regions have even seen more national money withdrawn from them that they have received from the Union. The Commission should review and clarify the rules for compliance with additionality so that this principle would also apply at programme and regional level.The fourth conclusion of the report is more effective evaluation and monitoring of the Structural Funds. Monitoring should be more concerned with results: what has been achieved with funding and how. Parliament should have open and transparent channels for obtaining information and arranging follow-up. The Commission should produce the necessary background information and reports in a clear form so that the committee and Parliament can use them effectively.When I was drafting the recommendations for voting, I supported the amendments that reinforced the conclusions of the report. My colleagues also tabled amendments regarding the content, which in themselves were worthy of support, but fell outside the scope of this report.
Mr President, when the two planes crashed into the World Trade Center they demolished more than the twin towers. We also saw the destruction of the European Union's three pillars contrived at the Treaty of Maastricht and our response today requires a fully integrated approach involving trade, finance and security.The Ghent European Council showed that the Union enjoys both the capacity, and the will, to provide an increased sense of European security, solid in support of American self-defence, and sharing in the campaign to combat terrorism. This is a European Union increasingly active in its civilian role and far more present in the Middle East peace process. For us to succeed, we need to put aside our petty squabbles and the interinstitutional rivalries.The Commission and Council should reflect the impressive cross-party consensus that we have created in Parliament. In that context I would like strongly to congratulate the Belgian presidency on brokering such a successful deal on the setting up of the convention.
Mr President, Commissioner, I am among those who believe it is extremely important for us to involve the developing countries in trade and for us to open up our markets. Not all developing countries are the same, however. There is one concern, especially when it comes to agriculture for, among the developing countries, there are some that are extremely competitive in terms of agricultural production, something that may be problematic for the EU. I should therefore like to ask the Commissioner a question: what strategy does the Commission have for coping with this, but without thereby halting the project of involving the developing countries and, in a short space of time, making them major purchasers specifically of agricultural products?
Mr President, last week, at the Etaples cemetery, the graves of British and Irish soldiers were desecrated in response to the instigation of war in Iraq.Mr President, I hope you will be able to associate yourself with the feelings of horror and concern that this desecration has already inspired, coming as it does at a time when British soldiers are fighting a war which, whatever the controversy over its instigation, sets democracies against totalitarian fascism.I am not speaking solely as a Frenchman and an anglophile, but as a European militant who, one year away from the centenary of the Entente Cordiale, would like you, Mr President, to associate our institution with the commemoration of an event that led to a century of community, blood and glory and which is thereby a founding event of the European Union.(Applause)
Mr President, Commissioner, many thanks for the explanation you have given here in the plenary sitting, although I believe that the meeting of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism was better attended than this sitting. But anyway, a symbolic presence counts for something as well, of course.I am left with a few questions. Chapter 4 is sound, except for 10 db, which is excellent. It appears that the re-certification or shifting of aircraft between categories has been regulated. If I have understood you correctly, it is now impossible to have a repeat of what we have experienced in the past, namely a shift from category 2 to category 3. That is now ruled out, if I understand you correctly. I welcome this.We must at least ensure that it is impossible to make changes for the worse at any airport. The situation must not be worse than it is at present at any airport. As you yourself said that the sensitive areas should be examined for each airport, things should therefore start to improve quickly, preferably as soon as possible, for a number of airports.But my question is, then, whether the agreements for classifying airports apply worldwide? Who lays down the standards? Does the European Union have a say in this? Can we be stricter? How do we go about this? What is happening about competition between airports? When we discussed Mrs Lucas’ report, we then stated that competition was one of the key points. Competition between airports at the expense of those living near airports and the environment is unacceptable. Do you know yet how we will tackle this in the Union? What will be the role of the local authorities? You stated that that would be done via the Planning department, but that is typically a local power. So how will you tackle this? As you can see, I have quite a few questions.Then there is the phase-out. If I have understood correctly, we have not yet accomplished this, and airport classification should help solve that problem. If there is no phase-out, in other words if those chapter-3 aircraft remain in the air until they reach retirement age, if I can put it that way, is that not too long? Should we not be somewhat more ambitious and introduce new aircraft onto the market more quickly?What is the state of play on a uniform method of measuring noise? Surely it is a matter of extreme urgency for both Europe and America to measure noise in the same way, in other words for the ‘footprint’ to be determined in the same manner everywhere.I also have a question on air pollution. You have said very little on this matter. What is stipulated in the air pollution agreement? One final question: what is happening with the directive on hushkits? Is it being repealed? Will you be making a proposal to revoke it, or will we simply retain it? Have the Americans commented on this at all? Does it or does it not form part of the package? I am still left with a few questions, but I believe we are on the right track. I hope that we can in any case find a solution in September.
Mr President, the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party also welcomes this proposal for a Commission directive, in the same way as it welcomed, equally favourably, the draft framework decision by the Council in December 2001. Thewould, of course, like to thank the two rapporteurs, Mrs Oomen-Ruijten and Mr Di Lello as well. These two initiatives are a practical response to one of the people’s major concerns: 88% of European citizens want the European Union to take practical measures to protect the environment. This is one of the findings of a Eurobarometer survey carried out less than a year ago and which my fellow Member Mr Coelho mentioned earlier.In response to acts of ecological delinquency, thesupports the position defended by Mrs Oomen-Ruijten, namely that the Community framework under the first pillar is the most suitable. We believe that a directive is the most appropriate tool for establishing a European list of environmental crimes and a common foundation of criminal sanctions.As for the more specific content of this proposal, I believe, as most of my colleagues do, that incitement, as well as the act itself to breach European environmental legislation, must be punished. Similarly, we should use general terms when referring to breaches of the law, in order to avoid ecological crimes from being swallowed up in a potential legal loophole.Having said this, and due to the dispute on the legal basis between Parliament and the Commission, on the one side, and the Council, on the other, I believe it is crucial that we take swift action, that we reassure our citizens by taking repressive measures against these modern-day polluters, because, today, and it seems with regard to the environment in particular, the reason why the law is toothless and benefiting unscrupulous individuals is that it is not being implemented. To take an example, most of our Member States have strengthened their criminal weaponry. This is a positive step. At the same time, it is worrying to note that in the same Member States, criminal cases involving the environment represent only 2% of the total number of all litigation. That is why we must use this dissuasive tool at Community level to ensure current regulations are applied, but also so that we are more effective in combating the organised networks which have made pollution their chosen new weapon.
Mr President, Mr President, the French presidency’s programme is interesting and in no way devoid of substance. There is a lot one can agree with. I nonetheless wonder whether it is in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity to talk about housing, health care and sport. Ought the EU really to be devoting itself to those kinds of issue?The idea of a community of values is important, but opinions are divided on how this is to be achieved. Many of us are disappointed at Prime Minister Jospin’s statement to the effect that there will be no change during the French presidency when it comes to the 14 countries’ boycott of Austria.The intensive discussion in recent weeks of our visions of Europe’s future has been stimulating, but it causes disquiet in the candidate States. Where exactly does the EU stand? This is an issue to which Mr Cox also referred.The unclear signals give scope to populists with nationalist agendas in the candidate States who want to prevent their countries from becoming Members of the Union. Was it a coincidence that no statement was made at Feira to the effect that we should be ready for enlargement by the year 2002?Does the French presidency’s policy concerning a further Intergovernmental Conference at the end of 2003 or the beginning of 2004 imply support for Chancellor Schröder’s proposal for a new conference on the division of labour? Even in that case, the signals are unclear, which is alarming for the candidate States.To conclude, I would point to one instance of unilateral action which is worrying. Why did France discontinue Slovakia’s membership of the OECD, citing the EU’s directive on TV issues? Was it right to do this off its own bat, without checking what the other Member States thought? What was the reason for its action? This has also given rise to concern in the candidate States about the attitude we take to their legislation and to their legitimate interest in being involved in OECD cooperation, which is economically important.
Mr President, unfortunately, the rapporteur is right. I thought that my amendment was far superior, but I accept that, as his amendment has already been adopted, it makes no sense to vote on mine. However, I would point out that the Commission has stated that his amendment is not accurate whereas mine is.
Madam President, it is with great regret that I have to trouble you yet again with an issue that I have raised here twice before. I have already told you on a number of occasions that we, on behalf of the Dutch contingency, would like a Dutch television channel. There are now 28 channels here in this Parliament, including two Greek, one Portuguese, one Finnish and one Belgian, but still no Dutch, and as many as seven English, six German and six French. I was promised back in September that there would be a Dutch channel by January. It is now February and we are still waiting. I would ask you once again to work on this. I wonder what kind of mediaeval bureaucracy is at work here preventing a Dutch channel from being transmitted by satellite.
Mr President, Commissioner, it is no coincidence that I am the fifth Member of this House from Scotland to rise to speak in this debate. That is a measure of the importance to us of our postal services.Scotland as a country is larger than some Member States. It has many remote mainland communities accessible only by road, sometimes served poorly by public transport, sometimes not at all. Such communities rely for their survival on having local facilities, such as a school, a post office and a shop. It is on the last two that the elderly, in particular, depend. Often they are located together, each service being made more viable by the existence of the other.Scotland also has many island communities, some of which can be reached by air but most of which depend on sea ferries. It has been calculated that the actual cost of carrying a letter from Edinburgh to the Central Highlands is about ten times that of carrying the same letter across London. And it is about four times the postage cost actually charged. The more remote the community, the greater the difference becomes. That is the measure of the problem.It is not to oppose liberalisation to ask that it be done in a way that takes account of these factors and allows the continuation of a universal and affordable postal service. It is for all our remote and island communities, no matter where in the European Union they are situated, and not just for the people of Scotland, that I ask you to preserve the vital lifeline that their postal services provide.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, needless to say, all forms of violence should be denounced, including the outrageous expressions of hooliganism during Euro 2000. Despite this, I am still convinced that the reprehensible incidents were blown out of all proportion, partly by the press and partly by politicians. Because of this, we have been unable to emphasise sufficiently how extraordinarily well-organised Euro 2000 was, indeed the standard of organisation will turn Euro 2000 into an unforgettable experience for millions of people.As representative of one of the host nations, I would like to congratulate everyone who was involved on the organisational side and in the enforcement of law and order. The success of Euro 2000 has shown that small nations are capable of great things and this should not be overshadowed by the wanton behaviour of a minority. All Member States should, in consultation with each other, take appropriate measures. Not only was Euro 2000 a superb festival of football, it was also a festival of solidarity among the citizens of the European Union, whom it brought closer together.
Mr President, the Director-General of the International Atomic Energy Agency, Mr El Baradei, recently stated that the risk of a nuclear conflict has never been greater than today. While Iraq was brought under control, the rest of the world changed into a kind of supermarket of private proliferation, a supermarket in which all countries and, possibly, even terrorists with nuclear ambitions, can seize their chances. Despite recent successes with regard to Libya and Iran, there is little cause for optimism. The US, Russia and France have all made a start on preparing a new generation of nuclear weapons. As tension mounts between it and the US, Saudi Arabia is now also choosing the nuclear option. For years, the father of Pakistan’s atomic bomb, Abdul Qadeer Khan, who was trained in Europe, passed on nuclear information to dictators and possibly even terrorists. On account of this combination of commercially-minded nuclear experts, immoral businesses and state-owned institutions, the threshold for a nuclear war of destruction has been lowered. Today, everyone is agreed that the monitoring system must be updated and tightened up. The capacity of the International Atomic Energy Agency must, as a matter of urgency, be reinforced if effective control is to be made possible, but the European Union should have the courage to take political, diplomatic and economic action against countries that ignore, or evade, monitoring in the field of nuclear proliferation. Not only do we have to tighten up where monitoring is concerned, we must also be prepared to enforce it collectively. I therefore welcome the Council's and Commission's pledge to commit to the further, full implementation of the NPT and to work for ambitious results during the next Prepcom and the Review Conference in 2005.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, could I first underline the fact that Mrs Wallis has spared no effort in submitting this report for discussion. The report, as it was approved within the committee, is in my view a fine example of a document which has struck a fine balance between the interests of all parties, both small- and medium-sized businesses and consumers.It would be regrettable if this balance were to be disturbed by tomorrow’s vote, besides which, it is highly unlikely in my view that the Council would be able to agree on the tabled amendments.Allow me to explain why. The terminology, as it is currently before us, is clear. We talk about ‘contracts concluded at a distance’, terminology which, even to a lay person, is far more transparent than ‘directed activities’, as is currently used in the amendment. Let me illustrate this with an example. If a French winegrower recommends his crémant in French, a French consumer may well enjoy protection under the Brussels convention, because the winegrower’s ‘activities’ are ‘purposely directed in a substantial way’, but the English, Belgian or Italian consumer will not enjoy this protection because the activities were not purposely directed in a substantial way to those consumers. This creates considerable legal uncertainty and will lead to various procedures having to be thrashed out before the courts where each case will need to be examined individually to establish whether the activities were purposely directed or not.Secondly, it is crucial in my opinion that the report offers parties themselves the opportunity of building a competence clause into their contracts. Contractual freedom is a fundamental principle. If we deny a party contractual freedom and, with it, the constitutional right to go to court, I can foresee various procedures needing to be instituted on account of denial of justice.In my view, the Brussels convention is of major strategic importance for the development of e-commerce within the internal market and it will also have a major impact on the success or failure of small- and medium-sized businesses. I therefore hope that this report, as approved in the committee, will be adopted in its unamended form in the plenary tomorrow.
Mr President, the post-Nice agenda of the Heads of Government is motivated by political cowardice and not by the need to prepare Europe for enlargement. The topics are intended to allay the people’s fear of an intangible shift of power towards Brussels at the expense of national jurisdiction, but all they will do is increase the sense of alienation. It is impossible for there to be a definitive distribution of competences between the European and national levels. The cooperation process is dynamic not static. Things that are taboo at first, such as the euro, may appeal later on. This is determined by social need, which cannot be predicted. It would, of course, be marvellous to have a broad forum on the future of Europe, but the outcome is a foregone conclusion. There are fundamental differences of opinion on this matter amongst the countries, across the political divide, and even within the political parties themselves. If we want to restore the confidence of the people then we must introduce a culture of greater openness and decisiveness in Europe. So what we need is a political unit which does not stand for re-nationalisation of policy, but which strengthens the political European institutions. That is what we need to see on the agenda, and that is what would testify to courage.
Madam President, Commissioner, I am replacing Mrs Riis-Jørgensen, who has other important commitments this evening.To begin with, I wish to thank Commissioner Bolkestein who has once again presented a well-balanced proposal for completing the internal market, this time within the field of financial services. I also want to thank the rapporteur, Mr Berenguer Fuster, for a sound piece of work, from the first reading to today’s second and very rapid reading.It is gratifying that the Council is, for the most part, adopting Parliament’s position from the first reading. This proposal will make it possible to make cross-border offers of insurance while providing a high degree of consumer protection. There is a good balance between a freer market, benefiting consumers by offering them more choice, better competition and lower prices, and the requirements governing the protection of policyholders.The fact that this balance between the market and consumer protection has, in the end, been established at the right level and feels reasonable is incredibly important for an increasingly cross-border market. It is basically a question of confidence, which is something we are seeing right now in the financial markets.The regulations must be designed in a way that creates confidence in those who constitute the market, that is to say the consumers. As Dr Tannock stated, it is not a question of harmonising all the regulations but, rather, of finding methods of achieving a mutual acceptance of current rules in the various Member States. I believe that is a wise approach.In general, those of us in the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party assent to most of the amendments, even though we question the wisdom of adopting a number of them. Allow me to mention the most important amendment which, in important respects, alters the whole proposal. In common with Mr Berenguer Fuster, I am talking about the second amendment, which we cannot accept. It would be unfair to consumers and their demand for security. It would also be in danger of distorting competition. We shall therefore vote against this amendment.
Mr President, I am glad Mr Bolkestein confirmed that he will not submit a new proposal. But he also referred to the review clause in the proposal. Can you assure me today, Mr Bolkestein, that you are not going to give in to France by permitting it to subsidise its shipyards in order to get agreement in the Council in December? Can you confirm that you will make no agreement with France before that meeting?
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express the full support of theGroup for the reports by Mr Marset and Mr Salafranca of the European Parliament Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Security and Defence Policy, regarding the EU/Chile Association Agreement and the interregional agreement with Mercosur. In both cases, as the two rapporteurs point out in their respective explanatory statements, these new Association Agreements with Chile and Mercosur currently represent the highest priority of the Union’s external policy towards Latin America. The extent of the economic relations between the European Union and these countries, the need to strengthen the political role of the European Union as an autonomous and influential actor on the world stage to counter the preponderant influence of the United States, the concrete support given by the Union to all initiatives aiming at strengthening democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights in South America means that we cannot go back on this move towards a new phase with regard to the transitional framework agreement that came into force in 1995 for Mercosur and 1999 for Chile.The European Parliament, as the only democratically elected institution, cannot confine itself to supplying a mere opinion; in the context of the forthcoming institutional reform, this House must gain a more incisive role by obtaining an explicit assent. So this is a significant moment, Mr President, a moment not to be wasted. As chair of the delegation for relations with South America and Mercosur, I must draw your attention to this, so that Europe and South America may continue their efforts to reach a solution, irrespective of the conclusions of the multilateral negotiations of the World Trade Organisation.Today, Europe still has within its reach the chance to build a privileged relationship with the Mercosur countries and Chile, a relationship ratifying a fresh start in our dealings with this land which, for so many reasons, is close to our own continent, a land in which we can still play a leading part. So we must give a new boost to these global Association Agreements, which must be concluded without wasting any more precious time, and which – it is extremely important to emphasise this – must not have just economic and commercial connotations, even though these are extremely important, but must include political and development cooperation aspects. These are the features which mark out what is different about Europe, our heritage, of which we are duly proud and which we cannot and must not abandon.
Mr President, Mr Gahrton has prepared a sound report on the countries of the South Caucasus. I entirely share his view that it is in the interests of Europe and the EU to associate the region more closely with Europe. There are positive signs but, as Mr Gahrton himself said, there are quite a few threatening clouds.In Azerbaijan, matters are heading in the wrong direction. A year ago, I met with the new, recently elected President, Ilham Aliev. In response to direct questions on electoral fraud that had by then already taken place, he flatly denied any such occurrences and referred to his own, and Azerbaijan’s, role in the Council of Europe. Following the autumn elections, we know Aliev’s game. Freedom of expression is crushed, and opponents are thrown into prison. If Azerbaijan is to become a genuine partner of the EU, the country must be fully democratised.A humanitarian disaster is taking place in the refugee camps, in which those driven out of Nagorno-Karabakh live in extreme poverty. I have myself visited a refugee camp, and I wish in particular to address Mr Patten and say that the EU has a big responsibility when it comes both to money and to putting pressure on the parties involved in the conflict. I think that Mr Gahrton’s report shows that we need a stronger EU in the international arena, especially if we are to be able to take vigorous action in the area immediately surrounding the EU.
Mr President, I would like to offer my sincere congratulations to Mrs Fourtou on this important report. It is vital for intellectual property to be protected.There are huge financial interests at stake for companies or people in possession of intellectual property. The development of society may suffer because artists are less inclined, in view of the enormous amount of counterfeiting that takes place, to invest time, energy and creativity in new products. The taxation system is adversely affected as a result, because counterfeiting is usually done on the black market. So I welcome the fact that something is to be done about it.If rules are to be put in place, then, as a liberal, I feel they ought to go the whole distance and not just part of the way. Indeed, that is why rules must be put in place, and why we have tabled an amendment together with other groups to make the end-user liable for punishment for possession. After all, as long as the end-user is able, without let or hindrance, to possess and make use of counterfeit products, there will still be a market for them and it will be difficult to cut off the producers and manufacturers at source because it is easy to make a profit and it will also continue to be a lucrative business.Therefore, we are pleased that several groups have given their support to Amendment No 8, which states that possession will have a deterrent and preventive effect on the consumer. This will be under certain provisos, of course, because the amendment came about on the basis of a compromise.We welcome the fact that possession is to be made punishable, or that the possibility will exist of making it punishable in any case, and I would like to see this extended to the handling of stolen goods; if someone were to offer me a bicycle at a very low price, I would not buy it. It is a different way of thinking and the intention is not to introduce a separate supervisory body.This report has got us off to a good start, but we do hope that the Member States will implement it in an effective and robust manner.
Mr President, during animal transport, animals are merely considered commodities and not living creatures with an intrinsic value. The Member States should hang their heads in shame for the fact that the supervision of compliance with legislation is so deficient. I therefore welcome the proposals to step up the supervisory procedures considerably and to tighten the sanctions. Furthermore, a general time and distance limit should be imposed and far stricter requirements should be prescribed for all trucks. Improved facilities should not be an alibi for extending driving times under the guise that it is acceptable for transport in ‘business class’ to take longer. The use of ‘business class’ is quite ludicrous considering the sixth-rate treatment animals still receive before they are killed. Live animals should only have to endure very short spells of transport. Eight hours is indeed an improvement, but four hours should, in fact, be the absolute maximum. We must move towards regionalisation of the production chain with small, clean slaughterhouses. The recent foot-and-mouth crisis has illustrated once again that the stopping and collection places entail irresponsible animal-health risks, and these must therefore be abolished. Reforms need to be carried out promptly with a view to enlargement. Across Europe, animals should no longer simply be viewed as objects which are financially lucrative instead of as part of creation. Mr Maat, many thanks for the sound report.
Mr President, I share Mrs Ludford's view. I will not repeat what she said. I only want to draw your attention to the fact that yesterday, I wrote a letter to Mr Gargani, the Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, to remind him of the debate held in that committee on 6 April, in which we decided to set the Court procedure in motion. In that debate, however, another procedure was discussed, in the event that neither the Council nor the Commission would take Parliament's opinion into consideration. Last night, there was insufficient time to discuss this letter, but the chairman promised me to take note of it and deal with it effectively. To be on the safe side, I shall also e-mail it to you. If the Council goes ahead and signs all the same, then I think we should start a different procedure. I wanted to draw your attention to that.
Madam President, dear Nicole, my Group supported you at the outset. We were proud to do so then and I am proud today after your record in office of two and a half years. You have been an outstanding representative of this House who has earned the thanks and support of everyone here.You took over at a very difficult period when relations had been fractured between the two key institutions of the Union, the Commission and the Parliament. I believe you have succeeded in restoring an effective and substantial working relationship which is so necessary at the heart of a proper functioning Community method. I thank you for doing that. It was a strategic act of considerable European importance, not just European Parliamentary importance.There have been impressive improvements under your Presidency in our work rate with regard to co-legislation and that is due to good management of our agenda. You have been an impressive defender and promoter of the Charter on Fundamental Rights and we salute you for that. You have brought a very special conviction to the fight against terrorism and in doing so you have brought dignity to the democratic purpose of this House. You strongly promoted the case for a Convention. One year ago, 11 months ago, 10 months ago – yours was an isolated voice. Today your voice is the common currency and we salute you for that.There have been controversies during your Presidency and I agree with Enrique Barón Crespo that you indeed had the courage of your convictions. For my part I have always believed that you acted in those controversies without fear or favour. That for me is a measure of the enormous personal integrity and strength which you have brought to your task.Of course as a woman you have brought not just the quality of being female but also femininity to this task. You represented that large section of our community in Europe which is so inadequately represented, not just in electoral politics, but in so many spheres of public administration and public life.Thank you for what you have done for this Parliament. Thank you for the strength and for the élan feminin which you have brought to your High Office and we wish you good luck and good fortune in the future.(Applause)
Mr President, it obviously makes sense to smooth out the difficulties involved in making two sets of legal systems work together to catch criminals and terrorists. Often in the field of law enforcement and intelligence different agencies are jealous of their patches and prerogatives, reluctant to share information because knowledge is power, and bureaucratic requirements must be examined critically. However, it is another matter altogether to justify brushing aside legal safeguards, defendants' rights and privacy concerns in the name of the war against terrorism.We have objections to these agreements on grounds of both procedure and content. As others have said, the degree of unwarranted secrecy imposed by the Council has been utterly scandalous. I am sorry to see that the Council is not here today. No adequate explanation has been given. The only possible explanation is the wish to avoid accountability to Parliament. The failure to consult the European Parliament formerly is a disgrace, and the justification for this democratic deficit – that the agreements fall under foreign rather than justice policy – is thin in the extreme. I very much hope the new EU Constitution will stop this ever happening again because we will have future agreements of this kind. I wish the European public could understand – and one day they will – that the real threat to their rights comes not from this Parliament or the Commission – the Community institutions – but from the arrogant, executive powers wielded in intergovernmental cabal by the Council.I just hope Commissioner Vitorino is right that the preamble and the text will ensure that no extradited European citizen or resident will face the death penalty, and that no European will end up in Guantánamo Bay without charge or without trial or will face a military tribunal which has the power to impose a death penalty without appeal. I also hope time will prove that the Member States' obligations to the International Court are not compromised, because otherwise there really will be outrage in the European public. We must solve the disgrace of Europeans in Guantánamo Bay before ratifying this agreement. I do not have the confidence in the Council that I have in Commissioner Vitorino. I am sorry the Council is not here today to hear our objections.
Mr President, Commissioner, I should like to thank the rapporteur and the Commission for making haste and bringing this proposal about so quickly, and also, in particular, for the soundness of the proposal on the accelerated phasing out of single hull tankers in European waters. It is sad that the Prestige accident proved necessary for us to take action once more, and to finally convince the Council that we have to make policy together and that it was necessary to strengthen the Erika packages with the present measures.I myself have another two amendments, which concern the Annex to this proposal. Firstly, as a liberal, I do not like to see a discussion on State aid to the shipping sector in an important proposal such as this. I recognise that action is badly needed, preferably through the WTO, to put an end to the dumping of ships on the world market by countries in the Far East. I hope that the European Commission also appreciates the necessity of this. I firmly believe in the strength of the European shipbuilding sector, however. Short-term aid does not seem to me to be efficient. I think that my own amendment concerning recital 7a is a good supplement to the otherwise excellent report.My second amendment expresses the great responsibility that I feel regarding the consequences of the accelerated phasing out of single hull tankers by this EU policy. I firmly believe that this must be accompanied by binding rules requiring all EU shipowners and all EU flag State ships to actively scrap phased-out tankers in a responsible manner. In the case of cars we have an end-of-life vehicle directive. I think that something like that must also apply here. In short, see recital 5a. Storing surplus oil tankers on the coast of Bangladesh and India causes greater disasters and has greater consequences than the Prestige disaster, and that was terrible enough.There are already initiatives enabling the commercial scrapping, on market terms, of ships in Europe in an environmentally responsible manner. This is waste management. The practice of disposing of ships out at sea and the rotten scrapping of these in poor regions must be a thing of the past. I hope, therefore, that double hull tankers will in future really be safer, partly also as a result of port State controls.
Mr President, I wished to begin my speech by congratulating the Greek Presidency on the work it has done in very complicated and difficult circumstances.I am glad that during this Presidency the Parliamentary Conference on the Stability and Association Pact in relation to the countries of South-Eastern Europe has been able to take place since it has allowed us to improve our neighbourly relations with the Balkan countries. Winston Churchill said that the Balkans had a very great and very full history which hardly fitted within its territory.I believe that the European Union must manage and improve this relationship, and promote cross-border cooperation between the Balkan countries, as a method for preparing them for their future integration into the European Union.This cross-border cooperation is based on knowledge, understanding and trust in one's neighbours and eventually on cooperation with them. To be able to work on the creation of a free trade area between states, firstly by means of unilateral agreements, progressing towards the disappearance of visas between states and eventually also the disappearance of visas with the European Union.These countries must be integrated into the common foreign and security policy and they must be able to participate in programmes such as Socrates or Leonardo, in order to bring their integration into the European Union closer.The Balkans is a complex region. At the Thessaloniki Summit the European Convention will also be presented. I believe the Convention has not dealt with the complexity of certain European Union Member States, which are not nation states but rather multinational states. We must establish mechanisms to allow these nations without a state, as in the case of Catalonia or the Basque country, to be represented in the bodies of the European Union.In this regard, I believe that Mr Napoletano’s report has been very positive, but certain points, such as the right to bring cases before the High Court of Justice, do not appear in the draft Convention. I believe this is necessary so that the citizens in question can feel directly represented within this European Union, which must be a Europe of the citizens, but also a Europe of the peoples it contains.
Mr President, the Council should realise that it is heading for a great row if it carries on as in its complex package of 27 December, making legal definitions of who is a terrorist without any democratic scrutiny. I predict that the Council's next step will be to institute Europe-wide bans. It would be outrageous to do that in secret and without accountability.Turning to the framework decisions on combating terrorism and the European arrest warrant, my group will support them. For a normally sensible British journalist yesterday to say that Europe blindly, on the nod, is about to indulge in its own sinister overreach, really is over the top.My group will not vote to postpone the entry into force of the European arrest warrant until there are common minimum standards of procedural law. Urgent action to catch terrorists and criminals cannot be postponed, but the habeas corpus amendment drafted so deftly by Mr MacCormick is very worthwhile. However, high minimum standards are also urgently needed in parallel. It is a fiction to say that, since we all have excellent justice systems, mutual recognition is enough. I could highlight flaws in the system of my own country – for example we have the highest number in prison of any EU State – as well as flaws in other Member States.The Council, as well as MEPs, must welcome proposals that the Commission is preparing on achieving equivalence in criminal justice standards. If some of the people who now oppose the European arrest warrant – in particular those on the right, not least in my own country – also cry 'shock! horror!' at what they might claim is harmonisation of criminal justice systems, they will be guilty of great hypocrisy. We need the European arrest warrant; we also need a programme of equivalence in common minimum high standards.
Mr President, I had informed the services that I should like to table an oral amendment after Article 39. I should now like to ask you whether this is still possible.That is very kind of you.We have at the moment a situation in which, among others, the Dutchman, Arjan Erkel is still being held, with no indication as to his whereabouts. This is why I should like to table the following oral amendment, which is in line with the rapporteur's views. I will read it to you in English. It is to be inserted after Article 39, and reads as follows:.'condemns the continuous abduction of civilians and foreign nationals in Chechnya and calls upon all parties concerned to secure the immediate release of all hostages.'
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the recent dioxin and mad cow scandals have amply demonstrated, if indeed there was any need, that consumers now want to have every possible guarantee as to the quality of their food. In this respect, the Lannoye report provides one more classic example. The rapporteur rightly wonders if the additives added to our foodstuffs are really necessary and, more especially, if they are really harmless. What are we discussing here? The total of 307 additives authorised by the European Union, only 163 of which are completely harmless, as Paul Lannoye has just pointed out. Who stands to gain from the inclusion of additives, of chemicals, in our meals? Certainly not the consumers, who are now increasingly looking to find 100% healthy food for themselves and for their children.In this respect, without going into the technical details, I should like to go back over the three criteria highlighted in the report. On the one hand, do the additives meet a technological need? The least that can be said is that consumer interests are not always in line with the interests of manufacturing firms. On the other hand, are the additives useful to the consumer? On this subject, the rapporteur highlights at least one case where this mistaken conclusion may be drawn; is stopping an ageing grated carrot going soft and losing colour – as it ought to – not, in the final analysis, a form of deception? The question answers itself.Finally, is it certain that the additive is harmless? Once again our thinking must be guided by the precautionary principle, since selecting a carrot which has had the E401 face-lift treatment also involves – and this is something the customer is not aware of, or not generally at least – running the risk of potentially unpleasant side-effects which cannot be ignored or played down.In conclusion, the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party will support the Lannoye report because it makes a practical contribution to improving consumers’ quality of life and, moreover, guaranteeing honesty with regard to what is on our plates. That is the prime consideration.
Mr President, are we going to support a country that pursues barbaric practices? Now we are faced with the drama of Mrs Lawal. More and more states within Nigeria are introducing Sharia law. The political climate is often so influenced by Islam that politicians only have a chance in elections if they support this legislation. Barbaric ancient desert practices such as stoning women or hacking off limbs are naturally at odds with the most fundamental human rights. The much-discussed clash of civilisations, cultures or faiths can only be prevented if the strict Sharia law is abolished everywhere. Nigeria is a very fragile and unstable democracy. The European Union supports the democratisation process there, and with good reason. However, it can only continue to do so if the federal government does everything in its constitutional power to stop barbaric punishments from being administered. If they fail to do so, the support we recently promised must be reconsidered. Development aid and support for good government makes little sense if the recipients of this aid persist with their barbaric practices.
Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I want to thank Mrs Cederschiöld and Mr Cappato for the sound work they have done. I am in no doubt that the forum supported by the Commission and Mrs Cederschiöld will highlight new issues and new problems. Moreover, the political front lines will probably not be the usual ones. This was also abundantly clear in today’s debate on electronic communications.I want to point out that the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party does not support Amendment No 55, for I think that the Committee’s proposal is clearer on the issue of storing communications data. A minority of the  Group believes that we should wait and see how these systems work and that we should apply the principle of subsidiarity. We support Amendment No 61 concerning the supervision clause. Our approach is characterised by humility, for we do not believe that any of these proposals is the decisive factor. Rather, it is enlightened citizens who decide.I believe that many of those who will be making decisions in the House tomorrow are really not aware that the issue of spamming is, in large part, also regulated through the general data protection directive. We have a situation, for example in Great Britain, in which 44 per cent of all e-traders do not know that they are contravening this directive. Moreover, people do not know what service they can obtain. I believe that responsible and aware behaviour on the part of consumers is the most important thing of all.I come from a country in which we have an opt-in arrangement, but we still cannot do anything regarding, for example, people who make use of changed addresses. We are constantly seeing different forms of spamming. I wonder if we shall begin to be required to have some form of register of addresses in the future.I want to ask the Commission whether it has considered addressing the issue in the transatlantic or global dialogue. What truth is there in what is said about America’s attitude? We have received different information about this. Many say that the Bush administration does not yet intend to do anything, that it is too soon and that there is a wish to monitor technical developments. I also wonder which rules apply if a European company spams outside the EU. Is it the e-commerce directive or this directive which applies in that case?
Mr President, Commissioner, I wish to begin by welcoming the Commissioner to her new and important task. It is hard to imagine anyone better qualified within the present Commission.In Zambia, several women are murdered every week by their men. In the United States, a women is beaten by her husband every fifteenth second. In France, approximately 25 000 women are raped each year. Those are the facts that greeted me when my radio woke me this morning. They were a few extracts from Amnesty International’s report on the appalling situation of women throughout the world.I am not a moralist, but there is a point beyond which only disgust can be felt faced with the wave of pornography sweeping into our homes, onto the Internet, into newspapers and advertisements and into hotels. If you are a parent with two children, you will have difficulty defending yourself against it. Now, the time is approaching when enough is enough. There is a clear link between, on the one hand, prostitution and every cruder pornography and, on the other hand, the oppression of women and violence towards them. Within the EU, half a million women and children are sold every year. According to Mrs Gröner, the figure is perhaps one of 800 000 women and children. That is scandalous beyond belief.The Lisbon process is certainly needed to strengthen women’s situation in the labour market. There is no question about that. If, however, Europe is to become a decent continent, a halt must be called to this odious trade. My appeal to you, Commissioner, and to the President, Mr Cox, is to address this issue as the first item at the Spring Summit in Brussels. On 1 May, the bells of freedom must ring in Europe, not those of female slavery.
Mr President, I will not go into the substance of this matter since we all know what it is about. My Group has no objection to taking part in 600 votes tomorrow, but we have a clear preference for your suggestion that we simply vote on the original report paragraph by paragraph. A long voting session is already foreseen, colleagues on both sides have had their say, and, therefore, I propose to you that we follow your suggestion of voting on the original report paragraph by paragraph.(Applause)
Mr President, the liberal group had severe doubts as to whether or not to declare this resolution urgent. Indeed, the issues concerning the treatment of the President of the Nicaraguan Audit Office, Agustín Jarquín, by the Nicaraguan government have been around for over a year. It is, of course, a very serious matter which deserves in-depth discussion, but as far as we are concerned, we would prefer it if this was dealt with by the competent committee and not in this hasty manner.It is a political issue. Indeed, one cannot help wondering whether there was a political motive behind the Audit Office’s accusation that the democratically elected government is corrupt? Quite possibly. After all, Agustín Jarquín, now under arrest, is a possible candidate for the presidency.There is also another question. Does this corruption inferred by Jarquín actually exist within the Nicaraguan government? That too is possible because many say that Jarquín is unimpeachable. It is not up to us to make a party-political choice in Nicaragua.Mr President, the matter is now in the right hands, namely the courts in Nicaragua, and should therefore not be dealt with by this Parliament.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I believe we have an important report before us. I welcome the directive’s objective, namely a drastic reduction in air pollution, with open arms, as well as the fact that we are setting a new deadline for 2020. As Mrs Jackson observed a moment ago, my objection pertained to the table in Annex 1, in particular the calculation method and the implications thereof for Member States with a small surface area and high population density.Commissioner, I assume that, as you already stated in the debate at first reading, we can expect a fairer distribution of the burden, also for small Member States, during the review in 2004. That is why I will be voting against Amendment No 10 which has again included the Commission’s old table in Annex 1.
Mr President, I should like to congratulate Commissioner Vitorino on the immigration policy that the European Commission has presented to this Parliament.The proposal to agree common admission conditions for migrants and to set up, in addition and alongside this, a policy instrument whereby Member States indicate target figures for work migration, receives the support of the  Group. My group would like to make a few observations with regard to the proposed system.Firstly, we reject the policy of zero immigration, but we also reject the policy of completely open borders. A responsible compromise must be struck.Secondly, the immigration system must be flexible. Quotas should not be forced upon the Member States from above.Thirdly, we must take account of subsidiarity, that is to say regional and national differences with regard to the labour market.Fourthly, a common immigration policy must also be accompanied by a common fight against illegal immigration.Fifthly, we must strike the right balance between the need for work forces in industry on the one hand and the unemployed within the European Union on the other.In summary, the  Group calls for a balanced European immigration policy. The Pirker report, for which I should like to congratulate the rapporteur, is on the same wavelength. Mr President, these will be my last words in this House since I have now been appointed member of the Council of State in the Netherlands. I would like to thank the fellow MEPs for their kind cooperation and wish them all every success. The European Parliament is a very important institution, which I will always continue to support.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank the many Members who contributed to this report. I would like to thank everyone who provided us with information during the hearings in Parliament and during our visits to Galicia and Brest, but also all those people who spontaneously sent us information by email or by letter, or who sent us entire files. All these cases were very interesting and they helped us a lot.I would like to make it clear, however, that the intention of this report is to improve safety at sea as much as possible. That is the only thing we were working on. First of all, we had to find out as much as possible about the Prestige in order to learn lessons from it. We then had to go through all the regulations, both European and international, in order to see where we could make improvements. It is clear that the Commission did not wait for our conclusions, although we had enough contact with the Commission during our work. Suggestions were made, and I think that the Commission worked quickly and well in this case.What went wrong with the accident involving the Prestige? One of the initial conclusions of the report was that there were no safe havens in the area where the accident happened. For me this is one of the two most important conclusions. The ship was moved away from the coast, and by moving the ship away from the coast they made the consequences of the accident, at least in geographical terms, more serious than they otherwise might have been.The Erica II package contained a guideline on safe havens. If we had applied this, the whole thing would probably have looked different. I am pleased that the handling of the system of safe havens has been accelerated. I hope that there will be a proposal for compensation very soon – the Commission has in fact promised that. We are also asking for clear management structures – and this is very important – for safe havens. The Member States had to report on the system in their countries by 1 July. As far as I know, they have in fact all done that. I would therefore like to ask the Commission to give its opinion on the quality of the documents it has received. What are they like? Would this have made cases like the Prestige less serious? Are we now establishing an effective system? That is the first question I have for the Commission.Another lesson I certainly learned from what happened to the Prestige is that we have to inspect old ships better. Either we have to take them out of service if we think that they are dangerous, or, if we think they are still OK, we must check them very thoroughly to establish whether they are in order or not. If all the reports are to be believed, in the case of the Prestige the inspection of one or both of the ballast tanks was certainly not performed entirely according to the rules. I think that it is important for us to also cross-examine the classification company and ask them whether they might not be able to tighten up their rules on that point. It is not sufficient to only look at the state of a ship at a particular point in time and inspect it every so many years. We also need to look at the way in which the ship is used. In the case of the Prestige, there may have been a problem with the ship being used as a mobile reservoir, and that could have weakened the ship’s structure. This was not taken sufficiently into account as it was not in the rules. We must make sure that this kind of thing does not happen again in the future.One solution we have put forward – or at least a decision that was taken very quickly – concerns the decision to allow the sort of material that was being carried in the Prestige to only be carried in double-hull ships. I agree with that in principle, but we must not regard this as some kind of miracle solution, as new questions are arising in connection with double-hull ships. What happens to double-hull ships when they get old? At the moment, all the ships are still new and everything works perfectly, but will these ships still be OK when they are 20 or 25 years old? Some specialists do in fact say that there will be problems with rust and weakening. The same things that happened to the Prestige can also happen to double-hull ships. We must watch out for that very carefully. I would like both the classification company and the Agency to monitor that properly. We also have suggestions for tightening up port state control and we have suggestions for following up the guideline on monitoring properly. There are so many things in the report and I cannot go into detail about all of them.When it comes to handling emergencies, I think that it would be a good thing if we were to have a proper European coastguard. I also think – and I think that the Commission's proposal is a sound one – that there should be an anti-oil pollution fleet that is managed by the Agency. We must not forget, however, that there is a great deal of expertise in the sector itself at the moment, and we must not duplicate the effort. We must make use of existing expertise.What I also find important is that there should be an independent body that investigates accidents in the maritime sector like the one in the aviation sector. At the moment it is particularly unclear who is undertaking such investigations. There is always somebody who is party to a case or who has submitted a claim or who must pay damages. There is never a higher, impartial body that investigates exactly what has happened. There is such a body for the aviation sector, and I think that there should be one for shipping too.I think, Commissioner, and I assume you are in agreement with me on this, that the role of the European Union in the international organisation must be strengthened. The Commission should actually be a member of the IMO and put its full weight behind it so as to ensure that we never act in disarray again. I do not think we have a major difference of opinion about that.The freedom of shipping is not absolute. A coastal country must be able to take action against a ship that forms a threat. If it is necessary to amend the international rules for this, then we must do so. We must ensure that safe havens are made compulsory in the IMO. We must regulate shipping in congested and sensitive areas. We must do that better than we are currently doing. It makes no sense to automatically tow ships 200 miles offshore, as this does not reduce the risk. This will not make the ship any better, and it will not make a bad crew any better, but the ship is further away so we think that the situation is safe.Mr President, you are being particularly strict; I hope that you will give me a bit more time. We must be able to exercise better control over flag states. We must pay more attention to the quality of crews. We must not criminalise the captain. This is important. This man is still under house arrest and must report to the police every day. I would like to call on the Spanish authorities to take another look at this case. In my opinion, and, I hope, in the opinion of most of this Parliament, this man is not a criminal, but he is being treated as one.Then there is the wreckage. There is confusion about this. There is much less oil on board than we thought. I have just received information from the consortium under the direction of REPSOL that is carrying out the work. There is still 14 000 tonnes on board, 13 300 in the stem, 700 in the stern. The central tanks, which we thought were still full, do not contain any more oil, just water. The difference between what we thought in January and what we now think is not the result of leaks but probably came about because more oil was lost when the ship broke up in the disaster. Preparations are continuing. As the leaks are small, no oil will be brought up to the surface this coming winter; this will be done in the spring.There are two more things I would like to say, if you would allow me, Mr President, and I thank you for your indulgence. I have asked for a separate vote on a number of paragraphs, because some things have been duplicated in the report. I hope that my fellow MEPs will be able to follow me in this. I made compromises on seven subjects; I am not going to list them, but I would like to ask everyone to look at them and to endorse them, otherwise we will end up with a document that is much too long.My final point is the temporary committee this Parliament would like to appoint to examine at this matter in more depth. I note that there is broad agreement on the principle. Both my fellow Members on this side and those on the other side of this House have submitted an amendment concerning the establishment of a temporary parliamentary committee. The argument is about its mandate. I will try to find a compromise tonight or possibly tomorrow morning. If I am not able to do so, I hope that this report will not be allowed to bite the dust on account of this, as only one of the 108 paragraphs is about the temporary committee. The other 107 are about safety at sea, and that is what we are dealing with here.(Applause)
Mr President, Commissioner, I want to begin by thanking Mr Rapkay for a good report and constructive cooperation. I want to thank you, Commissioner Monti, for your outstanding cooperation and I want to tell you that, as we enter the new millennium, you have an especially important role. It is your job to tidy up the messby national governments. These may well have grand visions when it comes to competition policy, but their capacity to wreak havoc seems boundless. Let me mention the latest examples we have seen: Holzmann, a company which receives considerable aid from the German Government; sawmills in former East Germany; and, especially, aid to shipyards. These are three areas in which many Danish companies are experiencing major problems and are being squeezed out of their markets. I want to say to Mr Poos that I very much agree with Mr Duisenberg that these examples show that some EU Member States are not in a position to restructure their economies and, to that extent, are helping to undermine the value of the euro.The Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party has tabled 80 amendments in the committee, all concerning state aid. These are amendments which we believe will lead to transparency and openness, which is very important with a view to making the internal market work. I should like to take this opportunity to thank my colleagues on the committee for supporting the amendments tabled by the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party. As I say, our amendments concern transparency, and I should like to emphasise the amendment which urges the Commission to propose uniform criteria and conditions for the type of state aids we consider to be lawful, specifically in order to ensure that companies can predict what their situation will be.Another issue is that of what we are to do when state aid is declared unlawful. How do we ensure that unlawful state aid is paid back? At present, there are no common rules in this area, and we vigorously urge the Commission to make a point of harmonising the rules on repayment. This is the way forward if we are to ensure uniform conditions of competition.Finally, we propose keeping both a register, as mentioned by a number of my fellow MEPs, and also a scoreboard showing where the Member States at present stand with regard to state aid. You have shown us the way, Mr Monti, with the single market scoreboard. It was this which inspired us to propose the same thing with regard to state aid.I very much hope that you, Commissioner Monti, will support these amendments, and I look forward to your comments and to finding out where you stand on this matter.To conclude, I want to welcome the Commission’s XVIIIth Report on Competition Policy, on which, once again, a good deal of work has been done. But, as I have already mentioned, our overriding objectives ought still to be those of transparency and openness. There is still a need to tighten up in the areas mentioned, and there is therefore good reason for continuing to work resolutely towards solving the problems concerning the lack of transparency and openness in the area of state aid. This is especially necessary in relation to the forthcoming enlargement of the Union, and I should like to thank Mr Jonckheer who, in his report, has considered very thoroughly the problems associated with enlargement and with ensuring that the applicant countries are able to meet our criteria, as well as with ensuring common conditions of competition. As Liberals and, we clearly have different opinions on how the world should look, but we are well on the way to agreement as to our objectives, and we shall try to find reasonable solutions to our problems.
Mr President, gender equality should not be something with which we concern ourselves on just one day per year. In the twenty-first century, equality should, on the contrary, be a natural part of everyday life in a democracy. There is a need for more women in leading positions generally, especially in politics. Talk of genuine democracy is meaningless unless there is also genuine equality. Our goal in the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party is to achieve a balanced representation of men and women. We would therefore call upon our member parties to comply with that objective in connection with the elections to the European Parliament.Enlargement to include the ten East and Central European countries on 1 May is of historic importance. At the same time, it gives rise, however, to some concern. The observers from these countries have done a fine piece of work in Parliament, but I hope that the new elections in June will ensure a more equal distribution of the sexes. At present, approximately 30% of MEPs are women. That figure should, as a minimum, be retained at the forthcoming election in June. In that connection, I wish to send a powerful appeal to all women to use their right to vote on 13 June. Increased influence and equality for women will only come about if women themselves are also prepared to assume responsibility. Of the ten shadow commissioners, as they are called, who have been appointed from 1 May, three are women. They should be welcomed. At the same time, I hope that, in connection with the appointment of the forthcoming Commission, the Member States will comply with the proposal from the Convention to the effect that all the Member States must nominate three candidates for the Commission, with representatives from both sexes.Women play a crucial role in modern, developed democracies. Gender equality and economic development go hand in hand. It is worth noting that those societies that have the highest degree of real equality are often also those societies that are most successful in social and economic terms. If we are to create a strong and competitive Europe, there is a need for women to participate as much as men in the labour market and, it should be noted, with equal wages and the same conditions of employment.Finally, I wish to express solidarity with all those women around the world who do not enjoy basic human rights and who are victims of persecution, violence, trafficking in human beings and all other forms of threat, discrimination and assault. We in the  Group shall continue to work towards improving conditions for these women.IN THE CHAIR: MR PUERTAVice-President
Mr President, many women are discriminated against today in their workplaces. We know that many lose their jobs when they become pregnant. This is completely unacceptable! The Damião report contains many good proposals, but we in the Swedish Liberal Party still have fundamental objections to the report. I would like to say to my predecessor, who spoke just a moment ago, that, in this Parliament, we ought more often to ask ourselves the question: What should the European Parliament actually be doing? How much detail should we go into? We believe in the subsidiarity principle, i.e. that decisions should be taken as close as possible to the people they affect.Social policy is an area where the EU ought to have limited jurisdiction, except when it is a question of free movement for citizens within the Union. Every Member State should have full responsibility and the right to make its own decisions regarding its social security systems. Maternity/paternity leave and maternity/paternity benefit are examples of issues that are not directly transnational. We do not believe in detailed common European social legislation. This does not, however, prevent Member States from cooperating and sharing ideas concerning social issues.The Damião report contains an amalgam of legitimate demands for proper security for women workers throughout Europe, demands for greater freedom of movement and a better functioning single market and demands for the national right of decision on the details of the socio-political system. In this connection, the report contains an imbalance.My final question is: Why should the European Parliament decide that every woman in the whole of Europe must have eight weeks off work when she has had a child? I know several women who have gone back to work earlier – there must be freedom of choice!
Mr President, Commissioner, unlike my fellow MEP, Ms Kauppi, I think there are better ways of celebrating the first anniversary of the latest election to the European Parliament than by taking up the time of the Member of the Commission to discuss this minor issue as late as 11.00 p.m. We could have dealt with this issue in a more appropriate way.It is also obvious that this is mainly a fiscal problem. To my fellow MEP, Ms Kauppi, I would say that it is quite right to identify matters of concern to liberals here, but what has Ms Kauppi’s party colleague, Finland’s finance minister, done to try to adapt conditions in Finland to take account of this or other tax issues? It is, as has been said, in actual fact a fiscal problem.I have referred in part to points of order. I am very disappointed that the Court of Justice of the European Communities considered that a discriminatory time limit could be introduced for citizens from third countries. My party, the Swedish People’s Party, was against this, but was unfortunately forced to give in when the Court in Luxembourg made its decision.It is worth noting that, unlike a number of Swedish colleagues, the Finns were no doubt aware that our derogation for other alcoholic drinks from EU countries was a temporary derogation. For my part, I nonetheless support the Commission’s proposal whereby the year 2006 would be the time limit where imports of beer were concerned. I am also concerned that we should not relinquish future opportunities for transitional regulations in the negotiations with Estonia. The Committee has introduced an addendum concerning Estonia, among other countries. We have a similar problem in many border regions, and I would refer in this regard to Mr Paasilinna’s intervention. It is a question of not making a hasty decision.I would also refer to the difficult situation where competition between transport operators in the Baltic is concerned. The situation is very unequal, and there is a risk of its deteriorating further.
Mr President, the Commission President has told us that the institutions must be responsible, transparent and efficient and he has promised to bring forward a White Paper on governance. If we need to improve the quality of governance of the Union, we might make a start with the Commission's work programme itself. We should be focusing policy-making on areas where EU-wide action is indispensable. We should be ensuring that the principle of subsidiarity is fully respected. Is this really the case with the Commission's recommendation on a common European format for curriculum vitaes: No 379 on their list of measures to implement this year? Each new legislative proposal should include a justification of why action at Union level is necessary and we might help, as my colleague Mr Clegg has suggested, by establishing a standing scrutiny committee in this House to ensure that measures proposed meet the criteria for subsidiarity and proportionality. Your state of the Union speech, Mr Prodi, should be accompanied by a detailed list of proposals individually justified and explained, not hidden away in annexes to the document. The proposal should be the outcome of serious debate in the College of Commissioners, not passed on the nod as A points. Our committee should cross-examine individual Commissioners on the proposals in their area of responsibility.Finally, the annual work programme should come to a vote here in Parliament. Nice showed the failures of intergovernmental Europe. It is up to us to make a more persuasive case for a federal Europe.
Mr President, I should like first to congratulate the United States of America, the puppet masters at this convention. Eighteen months after they bombed hell out of Afghanistan, the heroin crop in that country is now greater than ever. What a brilliant strategy the Americans must have!It is hard to find anyone who believes that the existing drugs policies are a success. It would be a ridiculous claim to make, were they to do so. So it should simply be common sense to evaluate current policies, assess their effectiveness and consider alternative options. And common sense it might be to the majority of people; but not, I fear, to the delegates to this convention. They might as well all be in the pay of the drug barons, because the effect of their determination to pursue the policies of prohibition will simply be to line the pockets of those same criminals, discarding more intelligent approaches which could reduce the real harm to individuals and to the rest of society.The truth is that prohibition is not the solution to the problems, it is the principal cause of them. It is prohibition which creates the profits of the drug barons. It is prohibition which kills users by denying them the information they need about the drugs they put into their bodies. It is prohibition which feeds the cancer of corruption which does so much harm to our society.My view – and my hope – is that prohibition will one day be replaced by government regulation; but I do not say that this is a policy which should be imposed on every nation. I say to my Swedish colleagues and to the United States that they should be free to develop the drugs policies they think appropriate for their own nations, but that others should be free to develop their own strategies to explore more effective solutions to deal with this terribly difficult problem.
The struggle in Iran for reform and freedom is of great interest. There have been considerable reasons for optimism in the election of President Khatami and the overwhelming vote for reformist candidates in the February elections but, as Human Rights Watch notes, the struggle to control the press is, in many ways, the struggle to control the future direction of the Islamic Republic as a whole.The very success of the reformist agenda seems to have provoked a backlash by the conservative reactionary forces and an attempt to punish the majority who voted in February for reform. They are targeting the independent press because it is a major channel for reformists. These attempts surely cannot succeed in the long run because the youthful population is impatient for change showing that Islam and guarantees of rights and freedoms are perfectly compatible.We must do all in our power to encourage and support reform, including especially basic legal safeguards for freedom of expression as required by the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights to which Iran is a signatory.In the meantime, we call on Iran to cease the persecution and prosecution of journalists and writers for views which do not threaten public order, or national security, but only the vested interests of conservatives.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for updating the priority trans-European transport network projects is important for Europe’s development. I hope that it will be swiftly implemented, and for that reason it would be wise if this Parliament showed moderation in the number of projects.The motorways of the sea is a new operational mode that I also hope will be realised with prompt decisions being taken. It will permit the development of a sustainable and more environmentally friendly mode in a way in which logistics can be developed to the full in terms of efficiency.I think the motorways of the sea concept should not be too limited. These projects must also be available on existing sea routes. With regard to the Nordic Triangle, in the vote there is a proposal to extend this to include the northern part of the Gulf of Bothnia. I support this small amendment, which, if implemented, would improve cross-border rail transport services between Finland and Sweden.
Mr President, I regard this a relatively important report, because it concerns a policy that accounts for a significant share of public expenditure, both at European Union level and at the level of its component Member States. Depending on the state concerned, it accounts for least 10%, approximately, of public expenditure. In addition, the report responds to what the EU Member States envisaged at the Lisbon Summit. Moreover, the text we will be voting on calls on the European Commission to draw up a Green Paper specifically on this question.So we should now be voting on this highly important text in the presence of only 171 MEPs, which is the number just counted. Perhaps that is established practice here in Parliament, but I think it is very chancy to give the impression that the European Parliament as an institution is committing itself on a subject such as this one and considering entrusting the Commission with this kind of task, given the very low attendance here. So I wonder whether Parliament could not consider postponing the vote on this document.
Mr President, I would like to make it just as clear that although my first name is Bertel, I have not become a Lord.(Laughter)(Parliament adopted the resolution)***Motion for a resolution (B5-0037/2001), on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Security and Defence Policy, on relations between the European Union and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea(Parliament adopted the resolution)EXPLANATIONS OF VOTE- Sjöstedt report (A5-0387/2000)
Our relations with Asia have greatly improved over the past few years, and this is something to be welcomed, for Asia accounts for 56% of the world population, 26% of the total global BNP and for 25% of world trade. Despite the crisis in Asia, trade and investment relations have expanded to such an extent that Asia is currently the EU's third largest regional trading partner. We can even say that we in Europe have contributed to a relatively swift economic recovery in Asia by means of our open markets and investments. Despite this, a great deal still needs to be done. Our political ties need to be strengthened and broadened. We still do give Asia enough consideration as an important partner in multilateral discussions within international forums, such as the World Trade Organisation. I would, in this connection, refer to China's recent endorsement of the Kyoto Agreement. This is a positive point. Asia is indeed gradually realising that it faces the same global challenges as we do: promoting peace, security, minimum social standards, environmental protection and the fight against cross-border crime and trafficking in human beings.Finally, I know from my own experience that Asians still do not know Europe well enough. This results, for example, in the EU's trade deficit with Asia which, partly due to the crisis, has increased almost tenfold over the past five years. We must therefore step up our presence in the region as a matter of urgency, and make the Asians aware of Europe's – and, above all, of the EU's – significance, so that the trade and investment potential of our companies can also be enhanced.
Mr President, Commissioners, this is a directive which the Finnish recreational craft industry, for example, has been looking for because it believes it is important that we have uniform rules. It is important that we take into account current developments, for example with four-stroke engines, which the Commission’s proposal does. I believe that the Commission’s proposal, along with the improvements which we are adding here, will reduce emissions considerably. It is said that exhaust gases will be cut by half. In this way, we will be able to contribute to improvements in sensitive water environments.As a Finn, and not necessarily as a representative of the  Group, I must say, however, that I am worried about the two-tier system which the rapporteur proposes. Otherwise, I believe that on many points he has drawn up a realistic proposal which corrects certain errors in the Commission’s proposal and which takes into account the costs and classic boats. I, myself, have a boat over 30 years old in my boat house which would not meet these standards; I believe it is a classic boat. In this respect it is a good proposal, but a division whereby different rules apply for inland waterways and seas is not good. For example, in the country which the Commissioner responsible for and I know best, it is possible to use the same boat on inland waterways and on the sea in the same day. When a boat is manufactured, it is not known which conditions it will be used for. I therefore think that Amendment No 15 is unworkable, and that is also the point made by the rapporteur.There is much to be done if we are to be able to engage with the recreational craft sector. In this context, I would also like to have seen us dealing with septic tank requirements, as I believe that this, at least with regard to the situation in the Baltic Sea, is one of the most problematic environmental issues associated with the boat industry. I would thank the rapporteur for a good proposal. We have been greatly interested in the fact that the Commission has now tabled this. It is important in order to ensure that the water environment will be improved. However, I believe that the issues which Mr Lange addressed with regard to groundwater should be solved at their respective locations, and that is something for which we have other legal instruments.
Madam President, the balance of opinion in my group was that we should not express ourselves by way of a resolution. This is partly because we have not had sufficient chance to reflect, but also because we believe it is wrong to say that when there is a major debate, Parliament will not express itself. I believe that Parliament will express its views vigorously tomorrow even if there is no resolution. So I do not believe that we will be deemed to have been silent; I suspect that the presumption will be quite different when we are finished.
Mr President, I must say that I am incredibly pleased with Mrs Klaß’s report. I am not among those who are so terribly concerned about all the E numbers and additives. There is, however, a group of people who lead extremely difficult lives, namely those who genuinely have food allergies. I think it is only right to show solidarity with them.As I say, I am extremely pleased that the rules are now to be very much tightened up so that everything that is allergy-causing is to be listed. It is also very good that we are to obtain strict rules to the effect that all ingredients are to be listed on a decreasing scale. My group will support all three of these reports.
Although my vote was in favour of the Markov report, I wish to draw attention to the fact that paragraph 11, in supporting the assignation of the entire responsibility for the structural funds to a single authority and a single minister in each Member State, may be inconsistent with the arrangements in Member States that have federal or devolved administrations. I hope that the paragraph will be interpreted in a manner appropriate to these situations.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to highlight an initial point that I think is fundamental: the Commission declaration is a poor one. The responsibility of the Commission today is effectively to take on the role of the public authority within the powers that it has inherited from the High Authority of the European Coal and Steel Community. It should also be pointed out that the Commission should not be a spectator, but play an active public role in managing steel at European Union level.The resolution put forward contains some themes that we see as essential. I hope that the Commission is able to answer four quite specific questions on these four themes. First of all, being aware that European firmness is necessary in order for steel production to be fairly distributed at global level, is the Commission going to ensure that the Polish Government cannot intervene financially in the industrial processes to support any of the Arcelor’s group’s plans in Poland? Secondly, does the Commission consider that it is still entirely capable of ensuring that the European Union can choose and maintain a steel industry, or is it simply waiting for the industry to disappear? In other words, is the Commission aware that it still has a responsibility under Article 3 of the ECSC Treaty, or has it forgotten that article? Thirdly, regarding regional restructuring and social support, is the Commission prepared, from now on, to use the resources of all of the European instruments as part of a programme negotiated with the responsible authority, that is, the Walloon regional authorities in Belgium, to ensure that any aid is focused on social support and restructuring, while ensuring that state aid is not paid to other regions? The fourth question is: what measures does the Commission intend to take in order to ensure that existing European social law is respected before any decision is made by any group? In particular this involves respecting a number of collective agreements. Along the same lines, is the Commission prepared, as far as company law is concerned, to invoke Article 5 of the ECSC Treaty, according to which the Commission has the task of ensuring that social activity continues as long as general production at European level is not threatened?Mr President, today Europe must, through the Commission, show the rest of the world that it is firm on commercial matters and make the industrial choice to be socially pro-active and restructure industry in a useful way. Finally, the Commission needs to play its role as a public power, to make European employment law and company law a reality. I am looking forward to hearing the Commission’s response, and I hope that the speech that will follow those of MEPs will not be of a general nature like the Commissioner’s first speech.
Obviously, the political leaders of Europe have a right and a duty to react against Mr Haider and his party. The political leaders of Europe are entitled to express their view of political developments in another Member State, just as a prime minister can express his opinion about racist politicians in a local authority.Finland’s experience, however, is that integration, rather than isolation, is the better way of combating antidemocratic forces. I therefore voted against paragraph 2 of the resolution, which presupposes that all parties have respect for human rights.The EU Presidency’s “common reaction” against the formation of the government in Austria is legally unjustified. The treaties do not authorise this reaction by the 14 Member States. Nor should we isolate the forces in Austria which wish to work for human rights.Despite these objections of mine to the Council’s action and despite my view that it is better to work for integration than to employ isolating tactics, it was important to show clearly where the European Parliament stands on questions of racism, which is why I voted in favour of the resolution at the final vote.
Mr President, I want to say that I too am sorry that the Commission has still not submitted a revised proposal on the subject of informing and consulting workers. Even if, after the election, a new and different majority is formed here in Parliament, we support this inquiry into the issue, even if there are some amendments which we in the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party value more than others; yes, even if there are aspects of the proposal we should definitely like to have done without. The political process should not be directed by delays.We in the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party want to promote the cause of informing and consulting workers, but it is also important to us that the necessary respect should be shown for differences in traditions and culture in this area. No new bureaucratic systems should be established which are out of harmony with labour markets where there is at present an effective dialogue between the social partners. We attach particular importance to the fact that life should not– even with the best of intentions – be made more difficult for small and medium-sized businesses where, in the nature of things, management is close to the workers. The amendments which Parliament adopted at the first reading in April mean, among other things, that the regulations governing the consulting of workers will apply to businesses with 50 or more employees and that it will no longer be possible for individual nations to be exempt from these. We prefer the original proposal which makes it possible in certain circumstances to raise the limit to 100 employees. On the other hand, we can support the tone of the amendments which clearly points in the direction of making the directive a minimum directive with the Member States having the option to go further.As we say, we like some of the things in this proposal from Parliament, and some other things we like rather less. However, a delay in the decision process is something which we definitely cannot countenance. I think, however, that Mrs Diamantopoulou has provided a good explanation of the problems there are in implementing the proposal, and this shows in fact that there are real political problems.
Mr President, thank you in any case for giving me the floor. I should like to start on a positive note. The Court of Auditors is celebrating its twenty-fifth anniversary, for which congratulations are in order, and I can only say that in those twenty-five years, the Court of Auditors has become a father figure without which this Parliament would be unable to do its job.I am also pleased that the Court of Auditors notes that the Commission is functioning ever more effectively. The Court of Auditors takes a positive view of Commission reform, and the same more or less goes for the new Financial Regulation. This is the good news.The bad news is that a positive Statement of Assurance has not yet been issued this year either. I should like to repeat what I said last year and the year before. Why can the Commission not be more specific and set a date by which we must have a positive Statement of Assurance? It would be something we could all work towards and we would know what to expect.It is also disappointing to perceive no real improvement in European unification’s oldest policy area, namely that of agricultural policy. Once again, the Court of Auditors is assessing agricultural spending very critically, and there appears to me to be hardly any tangible improvement. This is why I took the initiative earlier this year to better control agricultural spending. This topic will be discussed shortly in this House, and I hope that the Commission, the Council, as well as the MEPs will assess it in a positive light.It is also this year for the first time that the Directors-General of the Commission will be required to account for healthy financial management. I think that this will be essential in the future. As far as the procedure is concerned, surely there is room for at least some improvement, and the reports will also need to be more specific and clearer, but I think that this will be also an essential point for us as Parliament in future.As everything that needed to be said about the surplus on the budget has already been said, I will not enter into any great detail on this subject. Suffice to say that we naturally need to budget more effectively.I would also like to say a few words about the Statement of Assurance itself. This is the same message I am having to repeat. I gather from the Court of Auditors and the Commission that it is very difficult to indicate margins of error in some sections of the Budget, but I would still appreciate it if the Court of Auditors were to develop certain indicators where possible. We should be able to judge, from one year to the next, whether things have generally improved by a certain percentage. Everyone likes to know the final score, and this should also be possible for the European Budget.One major point that is left is enlargement. The Court of Auditors itself admits that even the current Member States leave a great deal to be desired on this score. As far as I am aware, the IACS (integrated administration and control system) has not yet become operational in any of the new Member States. This is a point of grave concern and something which will require attention particularly in future.
Mr President, there is indeed a crisis of succession in farming as Mr Parish with his expertise as a farmer knows well.If this crisis is particularly acute in Mr Parish's own Member State, it is the direct result of policies pursued by UK governments over the past twenty years, and to overcome it the United Kingdom must review the implications of the Fontainbleau Agreement for its contribution to European Union finances. This has been disastrous for farming. Moreover, the rapporteur, a member of the Conservative Party, must work within his own party to secure support for his proposals in the House of Commons.In countries where less than 10% of the population now lives in rural areas, it is too easy for governments to sideline the needs of these areas, and the message from this debate must be that they do so at the peril of their countries.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to extend warm thanks to Mr Evans for his report. I think it is an important initiative of the Greek Presidency, as has been stated by various fellow MEPs. A shortage of donors lies at the heart of the problem. In my country, for example, there has for twenty years been a shortage of organ donors. Moreover, not every donor is suitable. A donor should, in most cases, be brain-dead, but their heart must still be beating. As a result, many donors do not qualify. For a long time, road victims were, and still are, a source of donors, but the numbers are decreasing, which only exacerbates the problem. This should never lead to the illegal trade in human organs. It is too dreadful for words to be faced with the trafficking of human beings, including women and children, with the intention of removing their organs. These are invariably poor and powerless people from poor countries, but also from China and India. Some have their organs removed in the hope of a better existence, and others are simply taken advantage of. It is a good thing that this will be regulated. In this context, it is actually a disgrace that the Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine of 1997, which entered into force in 1999, has to date been ratified only by Denmark, Spain and Portugal. My country should take this to heart.The Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party is of the opinion that it is only by adopting a coordinated and tailored approach to the illegal trade in organs that human dignity can be protected. We therefore hope that this proposal will contribute to this. It is for these reasons that we support the proposal.
Mr President, Russia is of interest to us and is a partner that presents challenges. For some reason, when we give our opinions we often stress in particular Russia’s various problems instead of concentrating on its positive achievements and the potential that exists in future cooperation. Many things are obviously better in the Union but we also have problems Russian Members of Parliament could seize on if they so wished. To their credit, they do not. I do not mean that we should keep silent, for example, about environmental problems, lack of democracy or human rights violations in Russia. It is a matter of how we weigh things and how we handle them.Right now it is important for us to discuss the effects EU enlargement will have on cooperation between the EU and Russia. We have been able to resolve problems to do with Kaliningrad’s status but there is still much work to be done. In this regard the ball is very much in Moscow’s court. We need them to be unbiased in their approach to implementing changes in Kaliningrad so that there is investment there coming from the rest of Russia and abroad too. Now that the border between the EU and Russia is to lengthen we must make renewed efforts to develop northwestern Russia and boost cooperation in the border regions. The Union must make a more serious effort than it has until now to engage in programmes of cooperation in the Barents Sea and Baltic Sea regions and furthermore direct substantial economic resources at those areas.Another question of current importance is the development of cooperation in the area of energy. That would enable us on the one hand to help Russia develop its energy economy and protect its environment and, on the other, safeguard our own energy economy. It is in this spirit that progress must be made in the area of cooperation.
Mr President, everyone – in Finland at least – has probably played a game called Star of Africa. Each time we discuss Sierra Leone or Angola, I think with dismay of this game that was, indeed, regarded as just a game but which, at the same time, showed in a bloody way – one moment in Angola, the next in Sierra Leone – that what could actually be a country’s blessing can also be a curse upon it.My friends, I truly believe that we are beginning to see signs of a more intelligent policy in respect of the monitoring of resources. We have seen many proposals for peace – the Lusaka Protocol, peace proposals in Sierra Leone and such like – but so long as war pays better than peace we will not get especially far. I therefore strongly support what Mrs Maes has stated, namely that it is this way we must choose in order to move forward.I also think that Canada, which has started work on sanctions, deserves our support and forms a reference point for our activities in respect of sanctions and our work in opposition to landmines and child soldiers. We need to introduce similar work that is just as ambitious.It is interesting to note that many who speak Angola’s language are speaking today. I also believe that there are many amongst us who have a bad conscience concerning what we said about Angola in the past. We have all in our own way contributed to the tragedy. Now it is a matter of putting a stop to this, of looking at what is singled out in the UN’s reports – including the reports requested by the parliaments of the Member States – and also of pointing the finger at the presidents: those holding power in Togo or Burkina Faso who have, in their own way, contributed to the buying of diamonds or oil.When it comes to the World Bank, which was mentioned in the debate, I actually believe it can be a very positive player in Africa, for example by monitoring, as it does at present, the income that the Angolan government acquires through the oil trade.
Mr President, the Committee on Women’s Rights and Equal Opportunities had a lot of reservations from the beginning about the work of the Convention, simply for the reason that only 17% of the Convention’s members were women. Whether or not the deputies were counted alongside the members proper, the same result was produced. What is more, the average age in the Praesidium was 53, the members concerned being men. There was only one woman, who might almost be regarded as a female hostage.Our reservations remained intact when we saw the first draft. There was absolutely no mention of equality, ‘mainstreaming’ or anything at all along those lines. Fortunately, things went well in the end. Equality was made one of the fundamental values, and I should like to take the opportunity also to thank all those who have contributed to the Convention’s success. There is still a lot to be done, and I wish to emphasise that, if the constitutional Treaty is implemented, there are still areas of relevance in terms of equality where matters are not perfect. That is something of which I should like to ask everyone – the Commission, the Council and the representatives of the European Parliament – to be aware.
Madam President, I signalled I wanted to raise a point of order, although it is not actually on the Minutes. I do not want to delay the House unduly, but I think that as we prepare to debate the construction of Europe, it is important to take note of a landmark court judgement in the UK.The so-called historian, David Irving, has lost his libel case against the American academic, Deborah Lipstadt, who accused him of manipulating evidence to deny the Nazi genocide of the Jews. The judge has ruled, in a devastating judgement, that he was “an active Holocaust denier, anti-Semitic and racist and that he associates with right-wing extremists who promote neo-Nazism”.This judgement is important, not just for Europe’s past, but also for its present. With the rise in racism and anti-Semitism and the electoral success of extremist parties, this judgement boosts the fight to make Europe a society free of racism and at ease with diversity.(Applause)
Mr President, putting the principles of sustainability into practice is a difficult task and I think the words of the President-in-Office of the Council are encouraging, but can I ask him to come back to the question I asked? Will the documents that will be produced in time for the Gothenburg Council have clear and specific indicators within them by which the future performance of the presidency and indeed of the European Union can be judged, together with a clear and specific timetable for the delivery of certain goals, or are we going to see another set of waffle words which meet the goals of good intentions but cannot actually be measured against practical delivery?We have a Swedish environment commissioner: we now have a Swedish Presidency which has a firm commitment to the environment. We expect great things of you which is why we ask a lot.
Madam President, I would like to speak in favour of Enrique Barón Crespo's proposal for the reasons he has outlined so eloquently.
Mr President, the Ustica question is one of the darkest legal episodes in not only Italian, but I would say especially, European history. Over the past 19 years, we have seen numerous dramatic turns of events regarding the investigations to establish the truth that has still not emerged which, it appears, is also down to those involved preventing this happening and riding roughshod over the legal rights of the victims’ families and over our basic democratic principles.We do not want to apply a political interpretation or allow anyone to exploit a tragedy which has caused so much suffering. Let us leave it to the magistracy to ascertain the truth which is the right of everyone, not only of the victims’ relatives. In addition to the results obtained recently by the Italian magistracy, I do not know whether, in the future, there will or will not be other scenarios which, in recent years, we have unfortunately become used to owing to the legal events of Ustica. But today, we are faced with a judgement which outlines the hypothesis of the participation of aircraft from different countries during the disaster of 27 June 1980. And so Parliament must make a firm request to the Member States and the United States to cooperate in finding the truth.It is certainly significant for our institution to promote an action which aims to protect…(The President cut the speaker off)
Mr President, it is perhaps more important than ever today to stand up for tolerance and human rights at a time when racism and intolerance are raising their ugly heads and when the winds of xenophobia and anti-Semitism are being felt in ever more European countries.I am proud that, in general, the European Parliament holds its head high when it comes to defending human dignity in the world. Tolerance, respect, democracy and human rights are building blocks of European cooperation, and these values must always be defended.The EU has a good policy in this area but, as many have said, it is far too fuzzy and incoherent. We need a coordinated, credible and consistent strategy that is integrated naturally into the EU’s other activities. That is something we have repeated many times. It is also unfortunate that we have abandoned the tradition of holding a major human rights debate at the part-session in Strasbourg and have instead spread the debate out so that, for example, Mrs Swiebel’s report on human rights in the EU is to be debated much later. That is symptomatic of the fact that, in this area too, our work is incoherent.For quite a few years, Parliament and the Commission have proposed different measures for coordinating policy between the institutions and improving follow-up. Few of these proposals become a reality. They are nonetheless quite pressing, and I cannot understand why it should be so difficult to put them into effect.Mr Van Hecke’s report focuses on terrorism and modern slavery. Slavery and trafficking in human beings, especially children, are terrible problems and they occur, to some extent, in secret. It is truly excellent that these matters are being brought out into the open. Terrorism and human rights are topical subjects too. Especially here in the European Parliament, we have highlighted the fact that the fight against terrorism, which is obviously incredibly important, also raises a number of issues about integrity and legal certainty. The open society must never be weakened by undemocratic methods. We should like to have seen more of these issues addressed in what is otherwise a very good report supported by the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party.We agree entirely with the philosophy and the intentions behind Mrs Díez González’ report. We have doubts, however, about some of the proposals made in it, for example that concerning the new interinstitutional code. Certainly, this is extremely praiseworthy, but we wonder how it relates to the demands we are already making. Shall we ever be able to cooperate with anyone if all these demands have to be fulfilled? We believe in dialogue and, now already, we are making demands, for example in Article Two of the Association Agreement, which are not being fulfilled. Should we in that case be adding more hoops that have to be passed through?We also have our doubts about setting up a new human rights agency. What is such a bureau meant to do? What mandate is it to have? A single committee for citizens’ and human rights is, however, an excellent idea that we support.Human dignity is still violated in the most odious ways throughout the world. The EU can play an important role when it comes to defending human rights. We need increased coordination, improved assessment and follow-up and better documentation for analysis purposes, however. We must speak with one voice. Only then can the EU obtain real influence.
I take a positive view of the text of the report, in that it responds to many of the expectations of the political groups in this Parliament in relation to the future European Constitution.Nevertheless, as a Member from Catalonia, a stateless nation which currently has a limited Statute of Autonomy within the framework of the Spanish state, I cannot accept the deficiencies in the future Constitutional text, particularly in relation to two specific aspects.On the one hand, the territories with legislative powers have no clear, recognised system for participating in the EU’s policy-making. Neither is it established that those regions have the possibility of bringing cases before the Court of Justice when its competences may be affected.Furthermore, neither does the future European Constitution provide for the incorporation into the Union’s linguistic system of those languages which have official status in part of the territory of a Member State, as in the case of Catalan.I hope that in the Intergovernmental Conference (IGC) the governments of the Member States will modify the text so that it is brought closer to the reality of today’s Europe in relation to the aspects I have mentioned.I therefore abstained from the final vote on the report.
Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market. – Mr President, we have a situation here where under Rule 67 and Rule 68 we can choose what to do now with this initiative. Under Rule 68, we would normally ask the Council to withdraw the proposal. However, I have conferred with the rapporteur and others. The committee does not particularly wish to see this proposal come back. We would prefer to use the precedent which we established in the case of dual-use goods of a vote now to reject the Council's proposal.Members may be interested to know that in order to reject the proposal, we have to vote in favour of the draft legislative resolution. This is because, having rejected the modified proposal, the services automatically now change the text so that the text reads 'Council rejects'. We are asking Parliament to now vote in favour of the legislative resolution which rejects the Council's text. I hope I have made myself clear!(Laughter)
Mr Bonde asks an important question. I think I can give a clear answer and possibly help Mr Danielsson a little for, in several interviews last Christmas, I heard the Swedish Prime Minister state that any changes to the Constitution of Sweden, in this case Sweden’s Freedom of the Press Act of 1766, would create a domestic political crisis. Prime Minister Persson wants neither to have a domestic political crisis nor to change the Freedom of the Press Act.I would like Mr Danielsson to confirm that it is the Prime Minister’s absolute intention that the Constitution of Sweden will not be changed in any way.
Madam President, last week I took part in a conference in Stockholm, during which, at the request of his African friends, the African chairman of the plenary session, to which I contributed, began the session with the following words: ‘I was asked to bring back to Africa the cure for AIDS, the cure for poverty, the cure for political conflict and the cure for non-availability of information technology – the four diseases that are increasing the already wide gap between North and South’. It was not of course without reason that he said this. In 1960, the richest 20% of the world’s population had an income 30 times greater than that of the poorest 20%. In 1990, the figure was 60% and in 1997 it was 74%, and there is no doubt that it has increased since 1997. According to statistics in ‘The Economist’ of 16 June, the world has more rich people than ever before.The unfortunate conclusion he drew following the meeting was, ‘So it seems that I have to return to Africa without the cure for our four ongoing major crises’. We have a problem with many of our meetings. How much real success is there in changing things? We can hope that the G8 meeting, at which the individual EU countries, the Commission and the presidency are represented, can perhaps play its part in moving things on a little. If these meetings do not succeed in producing more striking results, there is of course the risk that the fear of globalisation will become greater and that we shall therefore see still larger demonstrations, for part of the problem is, of course, that people in general simply think that globalisation is a bad thing, while we politicians are of the opinion that it should, in a way, be a good thing and we know that it could, in fact, be so. However, we fail to see the results, and the documents we obtain indicate greater and greater differences.I therefore hope that we get to tackle some of the real problems. I would therefore urge the Commission – and not, therefore, Mr Patten but obviously Mr Prodi – really to focus upon the desperation of the developing countries, for this is of course the world’s greatest problem today. When the discussion turns to setting up a fund, providing debt relief etc., one must also remember to talk about ‘additional money’ so that we leave behind the situation in which it is the same money that circulates through the system and is never paid out.
Mr President, on my own behalf and that of many of my group colleagues, I should first like to focus on the Directive on access to justice. As has been said quite rightly today, the Directive impinges deeply on the administrative and legal systems of many countries. There is also reason to wonder whether the legal basis is correct. It has been interesting to note that the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy approved this Directive, and suppressed a proposal to reject it, by only 17 votes to 16.For many of us, it is an ideological question why environmental organisations should enjoy a privileged position compared to other organisations. Through our request for a split vote on Amendment No 40, you can correct that.Only last week, Commissioner, events in the North Sea showed that fishermen’s organisations have the same need for, and should have at least the same right to, access to justice as BirdLife or other powerful international organisations. Many of us share the deep ideological conviction that other environmental organisations, too, should have this right. We must not have some organisations that are more equal than others.In my opinion, this whole debate has raised the following question. What is the added value of the Directive other than to give us a deadline for the implementation of the Århus Convention? This deadline could be obtained by means of a considerably simpler regulatory framework than the rather complicated situation we have at present.As regards the application of the Århus Convention to the Community and also the correction that we want to make to the Directive, we have every opportunity of achieving these objectives by means of good governance.
Mr President, the Commission put forward a good proposal – at least from a strategic point of view – and, at any event, it is a step in the right direction. However, having been through the Council’s mangle, it undeniably looks less impressive. Industry has lobbied well, in the sense that it has succeeded in convincing certain Member States that the EU system will collapse if developing countries are given the opportunity to export just a little bit more sugar and rice than they do at present. I will not even go into the subject of bananas. Despite the fact that the EU countries like to use fine words about being advocates of the free market, protectors of the developing countries and a region with responsibility in the world and with high social ideals, etc. etc., it is apparent that these kinds of words can generally only be used on special occasions. There is occasionally something of a gap between words and action and, if there is one thing that the developing countries need, then it is action.As other speakers have mentioned, there is a kind of tragi-comic situation in the fact that the opportunities of the least developed and poorest nations are being discussed in Brussels right now whilst we are simultaneously having the same debate. It is to be feared that, in both places, the discussion will end once again with a lot of words and, in reality, very little action. But OK, it is a small step in the right direction, and so we can only wish the Commission luck with the new proposal and the new communication on sustainability which also, after all, mentions agriculture. We must therefore hope that the Commission has the necessary strength to settle matters with the agricultural organisations in the various countries. In any event, it is absolutely necessary for us to get to grips with the problems associated with the poorest countries, the number of which has, after all, grown from 25 to 49 over the past 30 years, with only one country disappearing from the list. The developing countries need free trade, debt rescheduling and aid, both technical and economic, and all three are needed urgently.
Mr President, although I value the work of rapporteur Maaten, I have to say that I am greatly disturbed by the European Parliament’s inconsistent line with regard to tobacco.The report once again reflects the ambivalence of the European Union – as has been highlighted in this debate – which subsidises the tobacco cultivation by more than EUR one billion and collects more than EUR 70 billion in tax money annually on the one hand and which curbs the sale of tobacco products on the other. I would also like to emphasise that it is not up to the European Parliament to deny tobacco products, which are legally available on the market, a fair chance of commercialisation.What strikes me in the debate is that we seem to overlook the objective of this directive. It aims to reinforce the internal market by promoting better harmonisation and by removing barriers to trade. In this respect, I notice an imbalance in the present report, an imbalance between the need for harmonisation and the aim of protecting the consumer.I take exception to the fact that the consumer is considered as someone who cannot judge for himself what he should or should not do. The proposed warnings on the packet completely miss the point. Whatever the dimensions, the information will remain ineffective. Information on the dangers of smoking will need to be conveyed in a more effective way if we want to achieve the objective. Above all, we should not forget that it is – and should remain – up to the citizens to decide for themselves how they wish to conduct their lives and they should be able to continue to do so.
Madam President, at 8 a.m. this morning, I found myself in the good company of 24 other MEPs, staff and one Commissioner at Schiphol airport. We were really looking forward to spending another week in Strasbourg after the holidays, but our flight was cancelled, unfortunately. This is not the first time. We fly to Strasbourg with Regional Airlines. Since this aviation company was taken over by Air France this year, one in two flights has been cancelled. That means that each time we try to make our way to Strasbourg, in good spirits, we stumble across yet another hitch. Today too, we had to fly via Paris to Strasbourg. So, although I was at Schiphol in Amsterdam at 8 a.m., I, along with 24 others, did not arrive in Strasbourg until 4 p.m. At present, Air France is still 100% state-owned, and the French Government has assured us that it will bend over backwards to make our Strasbourg experience more bearable. That is why I would ask you to pass this complaint on to the French Government, because we would simply like to catch our direct flight to and from Amsterdam every Monday and every Thursday on time.(Applause)
Mr President, thank you for stealing one of the points I was just about to make. I thank you for your fight to save parliamentary prerogatives in the matter of the financial system.On a personal note, I am most grateful for Mrs Berès' moral support. However, the Conference of Presidents has made a decision, which I accept, and I offer my full support to Mr Brok, whose work and qualities we know.The Council presidency has confirmed its intention of presenting a global compromise before the 'conclave' meeting in Naples. One hopes that this is a wise decision. Experience would suggest that it is not at the level of foreign ministers, still less officials, that the final deal will be cut. The great patriotic questions that so obsess some of our Member States, such as a percentage point here or there on their voting weights in the Council, can only be resolved at 4 a.m. on Sunday, 14 December, by the top guys.What the foreign ministers appear to be clever at is unpicking the essential ingredients of the Convention's proposals. Yesterday several of them challenged the famous passerelle clause, which permits the steady development of the Constitution and of a decrease in the number of exceptional, non-normal decision-making procedures. But there have been many previous examples of this passerelle approach in previous and existing Treaties. Therefore, their consolidation into a single general clause is clear, simple and straightforward. The presidency is quite right in standing firm on this issue and the issue of the Foreign Minister and defending the proposals from the Convention. It knows that the European Parliament is right behind it.We also support the efforts of the presidency to open up the issue of the future revision clause. However, there can be no trade-off between the two, the passerelle clause and the softer revision procedures needed for a Constitution to work well and fluently in practice.
Mr President, I am grateful to have the opportunity to respond at the end of the debate. Members have raised very interesting points. I hope that the President-in-Office of the Council will have taken careful note and will be keen to take on board as many of them as he can.Until recently relations between Parliament and the Council were not extensive, but a combination of an increase in the powers of this House and the prospect of an increase in the number of Member States has had the effect of bringing our two institutions much closer together.On behalf of theI welcome this closer working relationship between Parliament and the Council. We see it very publicly, particularly in the Convention, and also in the number of very successful negotiations through the codecision process. I welcome the approach taken, first by the Danish Presidency and now continued by the Greek Presidency, to much closer working relations with this House, shown in the President-in-Office's concern that a statute for Members should form part of the successful reform of the European Union institutions. We look forward to working closely with you.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Council has accepted most of the proposals approved by Parliament during the first reading. We have succeeded in getting the most important issues of principle through, for example, that the user stage, that is, those who feed the animals, is also to be covered by the controls. This is a success, since approximately two-thirds of all animal feed in the European Union is produced on farms.However, what the Council – and possibly also the Commission – has not taken note of is the fact that we have replaced the word ‘contaminated’ with ‘contain undesirable substances’. We are not, in fact, playing with words here. The term ‘contaminated’ must be defined in purely scientific terms with reference to substances and/or bacteria that have been added from outside, whereas ‘contain undesirable substances’ also includes those substances that are formed naturally, e.g. in the course of storage, when fat oxidises and mycotoxins are formed. There are lots of substances that are clearly inappropriate in feed, but which do not come from outside. They have arisen in natural processes which really should not have taken place. Hay should not be allowed to go mouldy, since this makes it downright dangerous. I have reintroduced all the amendments to the effect that ‘contaminated’ should be replaced by ‘contain dangerous substances’.We have also reintroduced Amendment 24 from the first reading, which deals with Community controls. In this case, the Council referred to a conciliation made with Mr Staes after we had started working on the report in the first reading. I have now changed the amendment to include the wording of the TSE regulation that was approved at the first plenary session in Brussels.We should endeavour to create legislation that is clear, consistent and easy to grasp. That is why I have chosen to copy the wording of the TSE regulation on Community controls word for word. It is easier for those who have to deal with the laws and who have to comply with them if at least the standard provisions that recur in directive after directive are worded the same. I think that this is very important. Mr Staes will submit an oral amendment in this area which involves a certain expansion, and which I am able to approve.It is of crucial importance that we get a comprehensive control system throughout the Union. Creating good laws throughout this food safety chain that we are now working on does not involve particularly great difficulties, but it does involve hard work. The big problem comes with control and compliance. Good laws are all very well, but they are just words on paper unless we have effective control and compliance.
Mr President, with the dissolution of the Warsaw Pact and the Soviet Union, the West began from the principle that the Russian Federation would be given unreserved support for her regional unity. Presumably, the Russian leaders also received some sort of promise regarding this when they were making their contribution to the peaceful dissolution of the Warsaw Pact and the Soviet Union. This has also been the West’s common position in its attitude to events in Chechnya.The Russian leadership, however, apparently fears it is losing those regions whose population is mainly made up of ethnic and religious minorities. Military withdrawal from Chechnya was seen as a dangerous precedent. The events of Dagestan gave cause to presume that the disease is spreading. The Russian leadership’s worry concerning their country’s regional unity is doubtless well-founded. They should, however, realise that a country’s sovereignty cannot be secured through military force. The only realistic way forward is for the minority peoples living in the southern parts of Russia to be satisfied with their circumstances and feel that belonging to the Russian Federation benefits them.Military might is necessary, but it should be used only to keep terrorism under control. The West must clearly condemn the excessive use of military force in Chechnya – more clearly than what was the case at the Helsinki Summit meeting. We must influence the Russian government so that it would try to solve its country’s internal problems both through political means and by promoting economic and social development. EU and Western credibility and capacity for action generally is unfortunately made weaker in this matter by the recent war waged in Yugoslavia on humanitarian grounds.
Mr President, I share your and Mr Aparicio Sánchez’s concerns regarding the fact that we are discussing such a fundamental proposal so late. I would also like to thank Mr Bayona de Perogordo and congratulate him on the report on which we are now finally adopting a position. It is a comprehensive report, and I know from experience that the work involved in such a report is fairly demanding. The report takes us a good step closer to our goal of a comprehensive coordinated and decentralised information and communication policy, or in Commissioner Vitorino’s words in the ‘Friends of Europe’ debate: ‘the fight against apathy and ignorance regarding the EU’. I would also like to thank you, Commissioner Vitorino, for your great commitment to this issue. I would also express my regret at the form of debate that we are having here in Parliament, since it excludes you from being able to answer questions here and now.Although we have made some great progress, many questions remain unanswered, and I will mention some of them and will happily send them to you as well, for it is important that we do not rest on our laurels in the information and communication strategy at a time when so much is at stake concerning enlargement and the future of the EU and when we are also coming up to elections to the European Parliament.That is why I ask: how far has the feasibility study got and the opportunities for a European ‘C-SPAN’ that the Commission is to implement? How far have we progressed in the work on the ‘Channel Europe’ concept? How far have we got with establishing a common visitor centre for the institutions in Brussels? How far have we got with calculations and costs for the initiatives proposed previously? How far have we got in our efforts to get the information offices of the Commission and of Parliament under the same roof in the capitals? I know that nothing has happened in Copenhagen. Allow me finally to ask the Presidency of Parliament: would it not be an idea, Mr President, for us to hold a debate in plenary on Parliament’s role in the information strategy up until the 2004 elections?
Mr President, I would like to associate myself with the sentiments of the previous speakers on the subject of Mr Marco Biagi.President, I congratulate you on the success of your first summit as President of this House. You set out to establish this Parliament as a credible and reliable partner in the interinstitutional dialogue and to demonstrate that Parliament, for its part, has closed what Mr Prodi described as the 'delivery gap'. You succeeded admirably on both counts.President-in-Office, Liberal Democrats welcome a number of solid achievements at Barcelona. The increase in overseas development aid to an EU average of 0.39% of gross national income is a positive step. If the Union can go on to meet the UN target of 0.7% of gross national income, we will no longer deprive the poor of EUR 100 billion per annum in development assistance. We also applaud the Summit's emphasis on making work pay and on reducing the tax burden on the low-paid, and the agreement on the energy tax directive. We need more economic growth but it must not be at the expense of our natural environment which we hold in trust for future generations.On the Middle East, we welcome the declaration made by the European Council. We urge the Israelis and the Palestinians to start fresh talks based on United Nations Security Council Regulation 1397, to accept international observers, to respect the Geneva Convention and to renounce terrorism and indiscriminate violence.I would also like to congratulate the High Representative, Mr Solana, on the deal he brokered between Serbia and Montenegro: truly a first for European Union diplomacy.British Prime Minister Tony Blair described the Barcelona Summit as a 'make-or-break' occasion. He may now regret that hyperbole, because although Barcelona undoubtedly represents a step forward on the road to economic reform, it is clear that this road will be long and winding. We must ensure that the delivery gap identified by Mr Prodi does not turn into a credibility gap due to the Council's failure to meet the multitude of targets that it sets at every Summit. One such example of a credibility gap is the partial agreement on energy liberalisation. What credibility will it have in the eyes of the our citizens if we deny them the benefits of more choice and lower energy prices? We urge the Council to support Parliament's call for a second stage of energy liberalisation to include domestic customers by 2005.The EU's credibility is also at stake in financial services. The pension funds directive has remained blocked in Council since it was adopted by Parliament at our first reading in July of last year. This is a prime example of a delivery gap which Parliament has closed but which requires more than warm words from the Council. The Council has other ambitious aspirations too, such as reaching agreement on the European Patent by May, and the Public Procurement Framework. If the credibility of these spring economic summits is not to be undermined, then Prime Ministers must apply themselves to banging heads together to make sure their national ministers make progress on these issues.If we are to close the gap, President-in-Office, between the European Union and its citizens, this will not be achieved by suspending people's rights to free movement, especially if those people wish to exercise their democratic rights to express their views in protest.Moreover, bringing the EU closer to its citizens requires progress on transparency. Paragraph 51 of the conclusions calls for ensuring greater transparency of the legislative process. However, it foresees no specific measures before June and moreover, the Secretary-General's report to Council limits the documents to be covered by transparency to those laws adopted by co-decision. This contravenes the regulation we adopted on access to documents last year which sees a much wider definition of legislative documents. You are already four months late in implementing this. We call on you to do so.Finally, in paragraph 20, the Council conclusions envisage the creation of a group of wise men. I wonder whether, at a time when you recognise the importance of women's participation in the labour force and when you express concern for the welfare of women in Nigeria, you might not, at least in this third millennium, talk about of a group of wise persons.
Mr President, I did not accuse the Commissioner of acting like a policeman giving corrupt evidence, I said that his lips were moving faster than those of a policeman giving corrupt evidence. However, I accept that my remark might have appeared insulting and I would therefore like to withdraw it.
Mr President, first of all I should like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Elmar Brok, and all the rapporteurs who examined the files on the individual candidate countries. Even though they contain the odd contradiction, this range of texts gives us the opportunity to draw up a detailed and customised progress report on the negotiations. At the same time, they enable us to gauge the extent of the work accomplished by the Commission and its departments in the context of screening and the negotiations. We now, Commissioner, impatiently await your own progress report on the subject.The accession of the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, Cyprus and Malta, provides us with a historic opportunity to unite all the nations of Europe on the basis of shared ideals, and to make the whole continent a more stable place.As a member of the delegation to the EU-Latvia Joint Parliamentary Committee, I should also like to briefly mention this specific case, by way of example. Significant steps have been taken in Latvia towards meeting the political criteria. Admittedly, some progress still has to be made in other areas, such as, to mention just one area which the rapporteur, Mrs Schroedter, did not raise, the modernisation of legal procedures and infrastructures. Nonetheless the political authorities in Latvia are unquestionably determined to bring the process of reform to a successful conclusion, and this bodes well for the future.In the face of the twofold challenge of both the enlargement, which must enable Europe to come to terms with itself, and the institutional reform, which must increase democracy and efficiency within the institutions, the European Union now, as it often does, stands at an important turning point in its history.The institutions, the Member States, and all of us, have to live up to this challenge, also in relation to the fears of public opinion in our own countries and to rediscover the inspiration, the ambition and the vision of the founding fathers of Europe.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I too wish to thank the rapporteur, Mr Izquierdo Collado, for a report prepared so well and thoroughly. The rapporteur has introduced notable improvements to the Commission proposal. The major objectives are the relief of congestion, the creation of hubs, improved safety and the promotion of sustainable transport. These are targeted primarily at the Union’s central regions.I would like to remind everyone of the transport needs in outlying and remote districts and regions, and geographically problematic areas. Good and viable transport links are vital for these areas, which have thin traffic flows. These needs are virtually ignored in the Commission White Paper. Account has to be taken of the special needs of sparsely populated island and mountain areas in any development of a common transport policy. Good transport links will ensure that the whole of the area of the Union remains within the scope of a functional single market and that all Union resources are spent.I would like to mention one final detail. A harsh winter has exposed a new type of safety risk in sea transportation. Consignments of oil in the Baltic Sea from Russia’s new oil port have increased in number. At the same time the risk of oil disasters in exceptionally icy conditions in winter has grown. The EU, like the International Maritime Organisation, has no agreement regarding how fit a ship carrying oil is to travel through ice. This breach in safety arrangements should be swiftly put right.
Mr President, President of the Commission, these are important issues you are addressing. There is good reason for returning to them and developing this debate. I look forward to such a debate’s being held in a few weeks' time with more detailed proposals concerning your priorities.Allow me to thank you for your contribution to the new procedure we have now brought about. Above all, I want to say thank you to the Vice-President of the Commission, Mrs de Palacio. We now have a timetable and new procedures for bringing about better cooperation between the Commission and Parliament when it comes to the annual legislative and work programme. I believe that this interaction in the form of a partnership will operate extremely well, that it will be easier for citizens and the rest of us to follow the procedures and that the follow-up will be better, etc. I believe that, as early as in a week or so, Parliament’s different committees will enter into discussions with relevant members of the Commission.That is an important part of the work of reforming our various institutions, both for Parliament and the Commission. I should like to ask the President of the Commission how those in the Commission intend to proceed with the work in the White Paper, sent out in March of last year, on better forms of governance. Many of the issues affecting democracy and the future of Europe will be discussed in the Convention but, at the same time, we of course have ‘everyday issues’ which also fall under the working title, ‘better forms of governance’, for example increased openness, simpler procedures and increased participation on the part of citizens. I wonder if you can say something about those matters.
Mr President, Commissioner, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party I would also like to congratulate our rapporteur, Mrs Ferreira, on her excellent work and her excellent cooperation throughout the process of this matter. It concerns a subject which it has to be said is technical and does not mean a great deal to citizens, but nevertheless it should be of great interest to consumers, in any case the increasing number who are fighting the battle against sugar and calories, but also against dental caries among children.What we are talking about here is improving welfare by authorising tomorrow the sale of two new sweeteners throughout the Union: sucralose and salt of aspartame-acesulfame, which have at least three characteristics in common: they have no safety problems (it has been confirmed and reconfirmed that they are harmless, as has already been said), they are easier to apply (they dissolve more quickly and can better withstand higher temperatures) and also they have a far superior sweetening capacity than traditional sugar.These substances can therefore be useful for day-to-day foods, in particular for diabetics and those suffering from obesity. With regard to cyclamate, a Danish study showed that excess consumption of it can be harmful for the weakest among us, pregnant women and children under the age of three. It is therefore a good thing that the maximum dose of cyclamate has been reduced.Regarding the three amendments adopted in Committee, although we have been forced to water down our position, we should welcome the compromise, which was reached between the three institutions and therefore means that we can avoid the conciliation procedure.As at first reading, the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party will not, however, vote for Amendment No 4 tabled by the Group of theasking for a re-evaluation of the authorisation of aspartame. We trust the opinions given by the European Scientific Committee, which is an entirely independent body, and the opinions given on many occasions by many national authorities confirming that the sweetener is harmless.As there are nevertheless some reports of problems following over consumption of aspartame, we wish to remain vigilant and our rapporteur has explained how we can do so.I am also pleased to note that the common position has established an obligation to label salt of aspartame-acesulfame, thus relieving the concerns that were expressed by some of us at first reading.To conclude, as Mrs Ferreira said, I would like to say that there are some quite frustrating aspects to this debate. It certainly does not answer the vital, or rather I would say priority question of the merit of these false sugars. Are they really a good thing for everyone, are there really no dangers to health, and I am talking hear in the broader sense and in the long term, do they really help combat obesity or, on the contrary, do they maintain the taste for sugar, whether genuine or false? There are so many questions that are only partially dealt with, although I would like to state to conclude that theis entirely satisfied with the results obtained from the questions that were on the table.
Mr President, we in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy are enthusiastic supporters of the common foreign and security policy, and we are also supporters of these Special Envoys which, at the moment, are inscribed in the Commission’s budget. If I need to mention the Special Envoys at all, it is because the Council is insisting on transferring the financing of the Special Envoys to the Council’s administrative budget. That may sound very sensible. The problem, however, is that, in doing so, there is a loss of the inspection and the control that of course exists in the case of budget items in the Commission’s budget. I therefore agree with what is stated in Mrs Haug’s report, namely that we must insist that these appropriations for Special Envoys remain on the Commission’s budget, for we in that way ensure continued parliamentary inspection and control and ensure that Parliament continues, for example, to be listened to and kept informed. In the Foreign Affairs Committee, we have been sufficiently constructive, however, as to think also about how a medium-term solution might possibly be found in a situation where negotiations with the Council were taking place. This can be read about in the Foreign Affairs Committee’s contribution to Mrs Haug’s report. For if the Council definitely wants these appropriations to appear in the Council’s budget, there is, of course, the possibility of the Council’s, in return, entering into a type of inter-institutional agreement with ourselves here in Parliament, whereby the Council promises to give us the same information, control, inspection facilities etc as if the appropriations had appeared in the Commission’s budget. That is, therefore, the Foreign Affairs Committee’s constructive contribution, and I should like to add that we, of course, also insist that, whenever anything new is adopted concerning the common foreign and security policy – be it in terms of expenditure or of initiatives – the Council must inform the European Parliament.
Mr President, people have spoken about a very fast timetable in the discussions on enlargement. On the other hand, it has been demanded of the new Member States that, prior to accession, they should have adopted and implemented the whole of the acquis communautaire and that the transitional periods should be few and brief. There is an irreconcilable conflict between these points of view. Some have suggested that this conflict should be resolved by offering the applicant countries membership of the EEA first. This is not a realistic idea. The EEA would not suit the applicant countries and, besides, they will be satisfied with nothing less than membership of the European Union.Rapid enlargement of the EU is a political inevitability. That is why I have asked and I am now asking why we could not change the terms of membership. We could specify a basic version of the acquis, which would contain core parts of the EEA agreements and a common foreign and security policy. In addition to adopting and implementing this basic version, the new members would obviously have to fulfil the Copenhagen criteria, agree to adopt the acquis in its entirety as a longer-term objective, and commit to the political goals of the Union. In this way we could create preconditions for membership of many or even all the applicant countries in the next few years. In splitting the body of EU law in two, the level of integration achieved by the present Member States could be guaranteed and cooperation could be further enhanced.If the Union were to enlarge rapidly it would have to decentralise dramatically, as was stated in the  Group’s position on enlargement. Thus, the tasks and competence of the Union would have to be curtailed and it would then concentrate on the core issues that can only be dealt with at EU level. This would mean that the Union would obviously also become differentiated, so that some present Member States would move further along the path of integration than others. A Europe of enlargement would be one of both decentralisation and differentiation. Talk about the fast accession to the Union on the part of the applicant countries is just empty words unless the conditions of membership are changed.
Mr President, the worst thing about Mr Bangemann's imprudent career move is the threat that it poses to the Commission that he served. The Commission was already in serious trouble and its problems were bound to have been compounded by the Bangemann decision. In my view, the Commission has a final chance to prove itself the clean, efficient and effective executive that the European Union needs and that its citizens deserve. Should the Prodi Commission fail, then I fear that the European Council will execute a coup d'état and deprive the Commission of its right of initiative and its important role as the promoter of European Union. So to start the process of the Commission's recuperation, may we insist that the outgoing Members of the Santer Commission apply voluntarily the Prodi Code of Conduct.
That was such a comprehensive reply that I cannot think of a supplementary question, so I will not ask one.
Mr President, there is a problem in the Dutch version, and I understand that this also occurs in various other language versions. It concerns the word ‘identity’, which is wrong, and should be ‘identification’. We do not want religious or political symbols to appear in passports and on identity cards. That is the issue.
Mr President, this is not quite as dry or as difficult as the title makes it sound.I wish to begin by thanking my colleagues on the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs for their hard work on the amendments on the prospectus directive. I also wish to thank the Commission for the important facilitating role it has played in reaching what I hope will be an agreed set of amendments when they are voted on Wednesday, and to thank the Greek Presidency – and before that the Danish Presidency – for the preparation of this particular dossier. I hope we will have an overwhelming vote in favour of the compromise amendments, with the agreement of the Council, and that we will therefore have a prospectus directive later in July when the Ecofin Council meets again.This is a key part of the Financial Services Action Plan and of creating a single market in financial services. Instead of having to use 15 separate prospectuses to reach retail investors in the existing European Union, in future an issuer of bonds or shares will only need one. That will give a passport not just to 15 Member States but to 25 and a market of more than 400 million people. The single European market in new issues of shares and bonds is set to become a reality. This will lead to more competition and, therefore, greater choice for investors, cheaper capital for businesses, and more funding opportunities for many businesses that might be denied finance if they were limited to their national market.Moreover, this key advantage – a single passport – has been achieved without some of the less felicitous baggage that was originally contained in a somewhat rushed proposal from the Commission and that would have added to the regulatory burdens, particularly on smaller listed companies. This deal ensures that there is no mandatory shelf registration and that there is no mandatory annual updating, unless the issuer intends to continue issuing shares or bonds. This is a significant achievement for this Parliament in influencing the final shape of this legislation.Crucially this agreement also confirms the freedom that issuers of bonds have to go to different EU regulators for the approval of their prospectus, so long as the minimum denomination is EUR 1000 or more or, importantly, a nearly equivalent amount in other currencies, so that USD 1000 can also be a minimum amount.The euro markets raised USD 1.6 trillion equivalent of finance for business last year and 60% of that finance was in non-euro currencies such as the dollar and the yen. Europe is the proud home of the international capital market and this deal now gives that international market a way of bringing its benefits across to domestic investors too.The Council and the Commission have accepted the vast majority of the amendments passed by Parliament at its first reading in March 2002: on the choice of EU regulator for bonds, on a light touch for small and medium-sized businesses, on tailoring requirements to different issues, on lightening the burden on issues. Thanks to Parliament's insistence we have also reached compromise on the ability of national authorities to delegate approval of prospectuses to stock exchanges and others such as the nominated advisors in the aim market. There will be a review after five years and the Commission may reconsider the commitment to phasing out delegation after eight years. The political declaration from the Commission is important and it shows an open-mindedness faced with the evidence, which we would obviously expect.We have also made clear that both national authorities and stock exchanges may continue to insist on higher standards of disclosure and corporate governance as a requirement of listing, if they so wish. This should put some fears to rest.As regards the last-minute changes that were agreed only last week by the Council, we have also clarified that existing medium-term note programmes, a very important type of financing structure in the euro markets, can continue unchanged. Indeed they will now be extended beyond the four Member States which currently recognise them and will also benefit from the passport. This is a real breakthrough for the single market and this House can be proud of its influence in ensuring that the directive is an effective means of extending competition, choice and efficiency.
Mr President, Commissioner, it is difficult to understand why those who are against harmonising income tax should be in favour of this directive. Those of us in the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party were very critical at first reading, and we still are. We believe that there would be damaging consequences for the European market if this directive were to be implemented before international harmonisation had taken place in this legal area.We do not believe that the deadlines for implementation should be shortened in the way proposed by the rapporteur. Nor do we believe there is proof that national minimum regulations concerning resale right are required in order to improve the internal market.As a previous speaker said, flourishing galleries and good systems of grants are important for young artists.
Mr President, I would like to emphasise the importance of the aim to use efficient, alternative transport, in place of short flights, which was mentioned in this report. For example, high speed trains, and, in some cases, short sea crossings offer a more environment-friendly alternative to short flights. This will be vital to ease congestion at airports and for environmental reasons too.Replacing short flights with alternative forms of transport will make room for long haul flights, for which there is no alternative. In Parliament we discussed several reports before the summer recess that aimed at improving the competitiveness of railways and sea transport. In addition to improving rail and sea transport competitiveness, we also need to take other action. One possibility is an environmental charge specially designed for air traffic. It should be introduced in such a way that the charge would be less for the unavoidable long haul journeys than it would for short flights for which there is a more environment-friendly alternative.
If I have understood the Commissioner correctly, there are two key aspects to this matter, of which one is the potential desire to provide this free packaging when tobacco is sold. I believe – I am not speaking in my personal capacity but on behalf of several Members, who have waged this fight side by side with the Commissioner throughout the work carried out on this proactive and important directive – that we are talking here about vital issues, and this is something that needs to be said! Our position is therefore to say that we find it extremely hard to accept this sort of legal fatalism. Not all being legal specialists but not, equally, being naive, we are fully aware that a legal solution – and we hope that one exists – will be extremely difficult to find. It is nevertheless also very hard to accept that these small objects, which some people see merely as items of fun but which are completely unacceptable, and which affect and even defeat the object of our directive, are sold in quantity today: 50 000 per day and that is only one brand, Commissioner!This is a fashionable item more or less everywhere in the Member States. In my question I refer to twelve States, but the problem certainly occurs in all the Member States and the candidate countries. I therefore believe that some serious legal work needs to be done. We must find a solution, all the more because the Commission proposes, and we support it in this battle, to go further by including photographs. These will make the fashion more appealing and will further speed up the process of selling the products and the desire to cover up the reality. What can we do if that happens?As to the second aspect, are the manufacturers themselves including this packaging? In most cases, they are not, but in some, it is the manufacturers of lighters that offer these products, which is not far off.
Mr President, the recent Palestinian suicide attacks, Israel’s tough reaction to them and, to some extent, the statements by Prime Minister Sharon about Mr Arafat, have once again brought the Israeli-Palestinian conflict to a head. This spiral of violence must now be broken as a matter of urgency. The international community must urge both parties to reach a permanent settlement and cease the terror. One glimmer of hope is at any rate the consultation between Prime Minister Sharon and some Palestinian official representatives that was held last weekend.As far as the European Union is concerned, a tougher stance would be welcome. We must strengthen our position in the peace talks, given the exceptional interests – and first and foremost the humanitarian interests – that are at stake. European leaders can no longer afford to look on from the sidelines, at the risk of a much greater and more extensive conflict emerging in the Middle East. The peace process will be a lengthy and tiresome process, but I remain convinced that with the necessary trust, the indispensable political will and the necessary perseverance, we can attain our common goal, namely a peaceful and prosperous Middle East.
Mr President, because of the events in Chechnya, we have to push for a political decision, but that should not be, in my opinion, at the expense of the TACIS programme. Putting it on ice or reducing it in some way will hit ordinary Russians and our most important partners in cooperation. Russian cooperation has to be seen in the longer term. Russia must not be isolated, nor must it be allowed to cut itself off either. Through cooperation we must help social conditions to become established in Russia and democracy to gain strength. The flaws that became visible when the earlier programmes were being implemented have to be corrected. Now projects have all too often been left half-finished. There have been few practical results, and the greatest benefits have been reaped by western consultants and local middlemen. A lack of coordination in the Interreg programmes has also meant poorer results. We have to choose who we help, through these projects, more carefully and become more effective when implementing projects on a practical level. Our local partners in cooperation must also be called on to commit to closer cooperation, and the commitments have to be kept on both sides.
Aceh never wanted to belong. That was the case under Dutch colonial rule, and that has actually never changed. For geographic, ethnic, religious and in particular economic reasons. Revenues from natural gas are an ongoing source of tension. Should this go to the Indonesian Government or to the military, the rebels or the inhabitants themselves? The population has been terrorised, both by the Indonesian military and by the GAM rebels, since 1976. From my own experience I know how dangerous it is just to travel from one place to another in this territory. Over the years, negotiations between the GAM and the Indonesian military have never delivered anything significant. The actual reason for this could well be that both parties have an interest in allowing this anarchistic situation to continue because they both earn well from it.After the last negotiations failed, the Indonesian Government proceeded to launch a large-scale military offensive which could easily degenerate into terrible excesses on both sides. The Jakarta Government has sworn that it would respect human rights, but who is able to observe that in this mountainous jungle terrain? It is therefore of the utmost importance that international observers go to the area that is adequately protected by the military. The European Union must exert all possible pressure on both the Indonesian Government and on the GAM and urge them to arrive at a peaceful settlement with fair arrangements concerning the distribution of minerals. Military solutions have never lasted in Aceh.It is particularly regrettable that Papua’s Special Autonomy Act has been withdrawn and has been replaced by a new law that divides the territory into three provinces. It finally seemed as if a solution had been reached which would make everybody happy and would guarantee stability. But Mrs Megawati has paid too much attention to the military and does not have the political courage to implement her own will. The Papuans no longer want to belong either as a result of this policy, and that cannot have been the intention.
I have been involved in the issue of blood donation for many years in the Italian Parliament, including setting up a parliamentary group belonging to AVIS, the principle Italian donor organisation. Over the years the task has involved the passing of and subsequent amendments to what is known as the ‘Law on blood’.I formed the opinion then that increased European harmonisation of the sector’s rules is vital, not just because of European citizenship which compels us to take the same attitude in dealing with problems of human health in Europe, but also because common rules are indispensable when faced with serious illnesses – AIDS, BSE – and a worldwide market in blood which must also take account of scientific progress (artificial blood, human blood produced from stem cells)Our amendments to the directive satisfy those, like me, who have always fought to strengthen public policy in favour of non-remunerated voluntary donation. It might perhaps have been possible to do a little more, providing funds to promote initiatives in support of voluntary blood donation, but we are still taking a good step forward.
Mr President, Commissioner Vitorino, we have discussed Zimbabwe on many occasions in this Chamber, and it is extremely tragic to see how this well-off country with such huge potential has headed straight for the abyss. Zimbabwe has for a long time been a completely lawless country, economically impoverished and badly affected by AIDS. It has a dictatorial, mad old leader who has completely lost contact with reality and with his own people. Precisely when one imagines that things could not be worse, new reports come in that the situation in the country has deteriorated further. The human suffering and famine are becoming worse and worse, and there is an acute need for humanitarian aid.Mugabe must go. That is the only chance for the people of Zimbabwe. Now, the surrounding world must respond with vigorous countermeasures. Everything has failed so far, but the sanctions must be intensified. The whole of the international community must be crystal-clear in its condemnation of Mugabe’s regime and tell him that our patience is exhausted. No contacts, no exchanges and no sporting events, together with renewed and more stringent sanctions, are what we require. We must seek a broad coalition, which includes the SADC countries, in order to take measures and put pressure on the regime. South Africa’s silent diplomacy, as it is termed, has shown itself to be completely ineffective, but South Africa must nonetheless be prevailed upon to use its contacts to put pressure on Mugabe.At the same time, we in the EU must support the opposition. There is a small number of incredibly courageous people who – at danger to their own lives and, in some cases, at the loss of their lives – are trying to fight for democracy and human dignity in that country. I hope that the Commission is able to guarantee that the EU will continue to support these courageous people.
We have voted in favour of the report on checks at the common borders but have certain reservations concerning Amendment No 4 through which the police would, in certain circumstances, be given the ability to carry out identity checks and provisionally arrest people in the territory of another Member State.We also wish to highlight Amendment No 1, which would give the police from another Member State the right to continue surveillance if the receiving Member State were not in a position to do the same.The national police force’s monopoly on the use of force is a basic rule in a democratic society. As is also stated in the Schengen Convention, police should only have the power to take action in another Member State in very special circumstances. Giving foreign police the right to take over surveillance or make arrests in another Member State obviously means that the work concerned can be done more efficiently.At the same time, it is important to point out that, when it comes to action taken by foreign police, the legislation of the receiving Member State reigns supreme. The regulations and traditions of the Member States vary, especially where procedures for identity checks and arrests are concerned, and they should not be subject to harmonisation.It must be ensured that the right of the police to carry out surveillance of suspected criminals outside the police’s own Member State is not abused and that local legislation and regulations are fully complied with. There must also be guarantees that all the requirements of the Schengen Convention are observed in their entirety before foreign police take action in another Member State.
Madam President, Mr Simpson, I can assure you both that it is certainly not my intention to decimate the postal services. Quite the reverse, in fact: I intend to make them more effective, and Mr Ferber’s report is not a sound proposal in my opinion. Some of my colleagues do not share my opinion on a number of scores, as will become evident in due course.I thought the Commission’s proposal was a sound one. It represents an important step towards an internal market, and is important for consumers and companies who use those postal services, but we closed the door on it. At this rate, we will need 100 years to bring about an open market for postal services in Europe. Mr Simpson, your predictions have, as far as I can tell, not materialised in Sweden, although that country operates an open-market system. The same holds true for the Netherlands, and when I talk face to face with other people from postal companies, they do not express these concerns either. I therefore assume that you are only voicing half-truths and saying what you like to hear.I have tabled an amendment. At the very least, that will give us an end date. I believe that my amendment is gradual and controlled. It is not as ambitious as I would have liked, but I feel it is a sound compromise. We are now facing a peculiar situation, really. Although we go along with the postal monopolies, I notice that the German postal services are floating their company on the stock exchange, the Mecca of capitalism, and advertising in the Belgian newspapers to sell their shares because they are a profitable company. And where do these profits originate from? A monopoly. I have noticed that the Royal Mail has shares in a postal company in Sweden because over there, it can compete within an open market. But I ask you: would a Swede be able to compete in Britain? No. This is the type of situation which we want to avoid. In this case, we are on the same side as big business. They have literally laid down the law. It is a hypocritical situation, if you ask me, because these companies now have a finger in all sorts of pies and are paving the way for the free market. They are doing this very actively. They are restructuring and are making people redundant, Mr Simpson, even though they are monopolies, and I believe we are protecting those interests. We have turned the safety net for post users into a hammock for those large postal companies where they can carry on doing what they are now getting away with. I object to this practice and will vote against it.
I should like to repeat a question which I asked Mr Moscovici last week in plenary. Perhaps he had too many questions to deal with to be able to answer me then.Perhaps you could answer me in these more intimate surroundings this evening. It is about the role of the European Parliament's in-trade policy, which is the spirit of Mr Newton Dunn's question. Do you think that it will be possible for you, me or anybody in Europe to advocate greater transparency and accountability in the WTO in-trade policy as long as this place has no formal and serious role in scrutinising and vetting trade policy decisions taken by the Council of Ministers and the European Commission?To cite my dear friend, Mr Newton Dunn, perhaps the best way to answer this is: yes or no.
Mr President, yesterday you showed you have a sense of history, and that prompts me to ask a question about the European School Portal supported by the European Commission.Last week, a web site of this kind was opened that refers to a Soviet history book from 1982, according to which Finland supposedly initiated the Winter War. We all know that the Winter War began with the ‘Mainila shots’ staged by Stalin, and it is outrageous that the European School Portal should contain this type of error. It offends my national sentiment and feeling for history. The Commission has promised to investigate the matter, but I would ask that Parliament’s authorities too look into the issue. It is outrageous that European schools should allow such poor quality on its web sites accessible via the School Portal.
Chairman of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs. – Madam President, I oppose referral back to committee. I note that nobody from Mr Gollnisch's group at any point in the committee raised any questions about the definition of regroupment, or of family, or of control. This matter has been debated fully in committee and debated here in plenary this morning. I see no reason not to proceed to a vote.I owe you an apology, Madam President, because I suspect you do not have in front of you the view of the rapporteur on all of the different amendments. If that is the case I would very happily, before the vote, explain to the House my position on the amendments put forward by the committee. But as for the amendments put forward for plenary, because they have been the subject of last minute debate, I will leave all of those to the wisdom of the House.
Mr President, I have a short question for the Commissioner. I was the rapporteur seven and a half years ago when we first discussed this project. I am pleased to see that the Commission has moved so far, but I still have a question. Maybe I am too cynical and too liberal, but why do we need to have rules? Why cannot we just use the Treaty as it is? Why do we need to have special rules for car dealers and for car sales? So far as I am concerned we could use the normal competition rules.
Mr President, Commissioner, this time I cannot talk on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party because we have not adopted positions on a number of the most critical issues.Just as Mrs Gebhardt said, we face an unusual situation. There is a danger of Parliament impairing the Council’s common position on environmental matters, a factor that also emerged from Commissioner Bolkestein’s contribution. It might conceivably involve a deterioration in relation to the position in the majority of Member States. That would be a scandal and must not happen. To Mrs Niebler, I wish to say that a strict liability exists that is much more comprehensive on many issues than the situation that would result from this common position. The proposal is not, therefore, particularly radical, either.Allow me to take a practical example. If the committee responsible had its way or if Amendment No 61 were adopted, we should be approving a situation in which it would scarcely be possible to require the Helsinki port authorities to repair the damage that is in the process of occurring there through TBT Poison being produced due to dredging and then spread in the watercourses in eastern Helsinki and in the surrounding archipelago. That is because dredging takes place completely under licence, and the authorities had at no stage been able to foresee that this poison would exist in the dredging waste. This case is now also being dealt with by the Committee on Petitions. I wanted to mention this in order to show how unreasonable it would be to adopt the reservations, now chosen by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, relating to existing levels of knowledge and to exemptions from liability if permission has been given.Financial arrangements must be acceptable in the compromise proposal we now have. They cannot, however, be harmonised too far, because we have different, quite creative arrangements in different Member States.Finally, I want to ask MEPs to remember that ‘state’ is not synonymous with ‘authority’. This matter also affects the local authorities to a very great extent, and this fact must be taken account of in the vote.
The Economic Forum and the World Social Forum met concurrently, reflecting the split between the outlooks they represent. The venues for each were also symbolic: the Economic Forum met in the ski resort of Davos, the World Social Forum in Porto Alegre, in the midst of a continent in full-blown economic crisis. Yet, in my view, opinions do not have to be so sharply divided. It is unfair simply to equate globalisation with an unbridled cross-border capitalism that is to the advantage only of multinationals. Those who were called anti-globalists have themselves understood this, and now call themselves alternative globalists. I think that general free trade still always offers the best guarantee of economic growth in all parts of the world, even in the poorest. The European Union is the best example of this. The thoroughgoing economic integration of Europe by means of the internal market and the opening up of our internal borders have already made it possible for us to live in what is at present one of the wealthiest parts of the world. It is this unique model of true globalisation that we have to take out into the wider world. There is certainly no way back. As the European Union, we have an important part to play in this debate. We must endeavour to bring the speakers at Davos and Porto Alegre together in an attempt to persuade them that liberalising world trade is an equitable way of improving living standards and bringing greater prosperity to the whole world.
Mr President, the previous speaker, Mr Garot, said that the disease is gradually starting to be brought under control. I hope it is. We therefore have to look to the future. Animal diseases spread with animal transportation, and so for this reason animal transport across borders should generally be avoided. At least there should not be any kind of financial incentive for it. Moreover, animal transportation must be properly monitored in each EU Member State and candidate country.One problem concerns animal auctions, especially those involving bull calves. I think these should be abolished altogether. Animal sales should be carried out, in this age of modern technology, directly between one farm and another, or between farm and abattoir. I would also like to stress the importance of a policy of prevention. Strict adherence to legal provisions on hygiene and transport is the undisputed basis for all agricultural trade and, consequently, for the production chain. The EU should embark on an eventual vaccination programme so that countries free of infection and disease do not have to unduly suffer.
Madam President, I should like to revisit briefly the problems which have typified the animal products sector for the past couple of months and years.We are faced with two problems: BSE, for which better tests can be developed, and foot-and-mouth disease, for which a marker vaccine can be developed. I should like to find out from the Commissioner what specific contingency measures he intends to put in place in this connection.I believe that public opinion can no longer accept the massive slaughtering of healthy animals. We, in Europe, will need to do something about this as soon as possible, and I would like a clear response from the Commissioner to the question when the European Union intends to contribute to developments in that area.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is as if we are debating the procession of Echternach today: two steps forward, one step back with the little progress we are making on one of the key political dossiers for completing the internal market, namely the liberalisation of the postal services. The Commission proposal provides for gradual further opening and will, in my opinion, surely lead to better services for the consumer at a more competitive price. As I understand it, this was the rapporteur’s initial view too, and his proposals were constructive. However, the compromise proposal which was submitted by the two large parties to the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism at the eleventh hour and brought about without the help of the, does not accommodate this view.I, with many others this morning, continue to be in favour of restricting the reserved area down to 50 grammes. This is more than enough to support the public tasks, such as adequate universal provision of services and a uniform rate. The line of the compromise that 150 grammes should be four times the basic rate is not only over the top, it is also harmful to further liberalisation. I fear that this will mean that the present monopolists can further strengthen their position on the back of the taxpayer and that the threshold for newcomers will be raised quite a bit. But my key objection must be the lack of decisiveness. This is evident from the compromise proposal from the two largest parties. If according to them, the time is still not ripe for further opening, surely we should be able to make the necessary preparations so that the market can be further opened up? This means that an end date must be provided. The pressure is on. I welcome a review in 2003, but it must lead to the next step: complete liberalisation by 2007. The postal services are ready for it, so is the market, and the customer wants efficient, high-quality and affordable services. The Commission proposal accommodates these requirements, but the rapporteur’s compromise proposal does not, which is why I reject it.
Mr President, we believe that it is particularly important that in the debate on the budget, amendments have now been approved in committee which support the Commission and ask it to back the campaigns and actions in favour of the moratorium on executions and, in the long term, the abolition of the death penalty. Why am I saying this, Mr President? Because this House has often made commitments on specific issues and has had successes, alongside defeats, as regards the commutation or stays of executions.The important thing is to mark the end of the twentieth century by means of action by Europe – Europe as the home of human rights – involving the abolition of the death penalty. All over the world, there is a vitally important campaign which Europe should be leading. I would ask the Commission to undertake to implement these objectives to make Europe the global home of political action against the death penalty.
Mr President, firstly I would like to thank Mr Costa Neves and Mrs Buitenweg for their excellent reports. The 2002 budget guidelines clearly show the budgetary policy the European Parliament is to adopt. Parliament wants to simplify EU administration and make it more efficient, underline the importance of the personal responsibility of officials, improve the way the budget is implemented, strengthen economic development and promote sustainable agriculture.Commission reform and making administration more efficient are key objectives. To achieve this the intention is to move towards an activity-based budget and administrative system. People must be responsible for their own actions in matters of efficiency and economy. Personal responsibility must be taken for delays, and the same applies to the fluidity and legality of financial operations. In this regard the reports clearly allude to the slow handling of the Structural Funds programmes by the Commission. We shall return to this subject in connection with the discharge procedure for 2000.In the reports, the key to smooth, efficient and responsible administration is a newly revised Financial Regulation, which is an urgently required measure. Parliament is also demanding that delays and arrears should be dealt with. My own group demands that the problem of arrears should be sorted out more effectively, and says that we should be able to dissolve outstanding commitments after a certain period of time has passed.One particular problem is the agricultural budget. The margin in its financial perspective has been almost used up as a result of the BSE crisis. The idea of savings in the agricultural budget, which was discussed at Berlin, would not appear to be the solution at present. The BSE crisis is jeopardising the entire budget because of the need for extra storage and exports. In this connection, however, I cannot personally agree with Commissioner Schreyer’s publicly expressed call for a cut in subsidies. Farmers are the only section of the population in Europe whose income levels are determined directly by the EU. For that reason, they cannot be expected to foot the bill personally for the BSE crisis. Agricultural aid does not encourage over-production, because it is not connected to the volume of production and is based on surface area and number of livestock. We must remember that our fiercest competitor, the United States, subsidises agriculture on a scale that is clearly greater than in the EU. It would be important if the Commission were also committed to Agenda 2000.The main question for the future will be the trend in administrative expenditure under heading 5. The Council is developing its own military crisis management organisation and has asked, among others, for 51 new posts in the second supplementary budget in the middle of the budgetary year. Crisis management is clearly a matter of operational expenditure. For that reason, the Council must explain more clearly what the issue is here, in other words, is the Council creating a ‘new Commission’ for the EU’s second pillar, one which would be outside Parliament’s budgetary authority? As this is clearly a case of non-compulsory expenditure, Parliament cannot endorse these plans.
Despite promising attempts, current fisheries policy still involves the EU buying the right to abuse the natural resources of the poor. It is a modern form of colonialism. A real reform of fisheries policy and a complete change in view of our relationship with poor countries are necessary. We have therefore chosen to vote against the above report.
Mr President, there are now only fifty days remaining of the long journey that began with the scenes of joy on 9 November 1989 under the Brandenburg Gate in Berlin. In fifty days, Europe will become a united continent, and almost half a billion people will join together to work towards a better and fairer world and to defend European values and together solve common problems: pollution, cross-border crime and, in particular, trafficking in human beings, which everyone has mentioned. EU enlargement is a fantastic example of what we can achieve when we have a clear goal and a clear strategy in the EU. With EU membership as a tempting goal, and hard work on their part, the former communist dictatorships have now become fully functioning democracies and market economies. Potential membership has also contributed to the work of reform in Turkey and to the possibility of perhaps finally solving the Cyprus problem.Naturally, there remain a great many problems, which Elmar Brok also pointed out in his excellent report. The EU will change dramatically in the next few years, and the main task during the next term of office will be to make this enlarged Europe work. It is therefore extremely important that the Convention’s proposal is actually carried out so that the EU can take decisions and function democratically.The Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party is always particularly concerned about minority rights, which is why we are greatly worried by the unrest within the Roma group in Slovakia. The cuts in social benefits hit this group particularly hard, and we hope that the Commission can continue to monitor the Roma situation in both the old and the new Member States.Finally, I too regret that we are building walls between ourselves and the new Member States in the shape of various types of transitional rules. One country after another is now introducing more or less discriminatory regulations based on fears that seem completely unfounded and are eagerly encouraged by the press in certain countries. Instead of hindering freedom of movement, we should welcome the fact that it embraces more and more people.(Applause)
Mr President, given the importance of the directive on national emission ceilings to this report on a proposal for a daughter directive, it is a little surprising that the order of debate is as it is, because without reduction in the key trans-boundary pollutants we are not going to reduce ozone.This report sets national targets for ozone levels and proposes action plans for dealing with local problems of exceedance. To save time I am going to assume that the respiratory and other health problems associated with ozone are understood, and that every Member of this House will want to reduce them. The disputes between us will be about costs and time-scales, and perhaps also about the accuracy of the Commission's methodology and the achievability of the targets it has set in this directive.Let me deal directly with the Commission's core proposal, the setting of a target for 2010 of 120 mg per cubic metre for ozone, not to be exceeded on more than 20 days per year.Commission proposals for environmental improvements need to be both ambitious and realistic. These proposals are certainly ambitious but many governments dispute whether they are politically realistic, and having just come from a difficult – albeit ultimately successful – group meeting of my own, I know that many Members have doubts. In particular, representatives of the Mediterranean countries point out problems resulting from the strong sunlight they enjoy. I point out that the Commission's methodology has taken full account of this but I look at their faces and still see a degree of scepticism. I did wonder some months ago whether to table amendments, which would suggest a less ambitious outcome, but which would perhaps be more acceptable to Member States. But the Commission's 120 mg target is in line with World Health Organisation proposals, and who am I to suggest that they should be challenged? The number of days of exceedance could easily be adjusted, but that is something to negotiate only when necessary. It is a good target and, if it is at all possible, then it should be retained.The position I have taken in preparing this report is to say that those who want tougher targets than the Commission has proposed should have their views rejected. But equally it would be wrong for us to water down the draft directive. That is why I am sorry to see amendments tabled which reflect the Industry Committee's position. It seems to have been overlooked by many that these amendments, if carried, would leave the European Union in a much weaker position with regard to ozone targets than is enjoyed by the United States of America.We are aware of growing problems of ozone across Europe, but if we are not even prepared to match the standards being set by the USA, one of our great commercial rivals, this would indeed be a great shame and a sorry reflection on our commitment to environmental improvement.I ask Parliament to support my proposals, to give its backing to the Commissioner and to let her play her part in negotiating a common position which is both ambitious and politically realistic.
Mr President, my group's attitude towards the Commission's attempts in this area is rather different from that of the previous speaker. Indeed, if we were to criticise the Commission, we would criticise it rather from the other side; we would hope that the Commission would take a rather more robustly liberal attitude, for example in the proposals which it has made for a directive on occupational pension funds, to remove the possibility of certain Member States deciding to continue to implement quantitative restrictions for which there is absolutely no evidence whatsoever of any superior performance. The Commission should generally adopt the guiding principle that it should at least be capable of putting forward some evidence in favour of its proposals, rather than merely going for something which appears to be no better than the average practice in those Member States where the prudent person principle is adopted.We also take a different view in urging the Commission and our colleagues in Parliament to try to make progress in taxation coordination. While that is a very desirable aim, we should not allow the best to become the enemy of the good. If we can make progress in improving the returns for pensioners in private schemes across the European Union, we should do so. There is, as I have already said, absolutely no evidence that there is any reduction in safety or security as a result, and to establish an entirely spurious linkage, whereby we wait until we have a perfect scheme for taxation before we attempt to make some progress in the area of opening up and liberalising asset management seems to me to be very unfortunate.We also welcome the Commission's new stress on coordination rather than on legislation. We know that it is perfectly possible for the Commission to make many proposals, as it has done in the past, without making very much progress. This is a new approach and I hope that it will be more successful than the approach of some of the Commissioner's predecessors in this area.
Mr President, I repeat that, because the session services have rejected the possibility of adding to the report the answer we received from the Council during the reading by the committee, I am forced to take the floor instead. I want what the Council said added to the minutes, so that my fellow MEPs might know what the answer was.A long conflict between the institutions about what constitutes a document and what are more incidental papers has been resolved. The Council had refused to give documentation to the complainant, Mr Tony Bunyan, on the grounds that the documents were ephemeral or only reflected the thinking of individuals. Everyone who has come into contact with the decision-making process knows that precisely these documents are important.Following the reading by the Committee on Petitions, the Council has promised to introduce a new practice. The Council’s list of documents is to be complete and so also include texts distributed at the meetings of the Council. This means that the arrangement we adopted previously will operate still better and that the public will more easily be able to follow the decision-making process.I would cite the letter sent by Mr Brunmayr, Director-General of the Council Secretariat.Mr President, in the light of the Ombudsman's special report, all Directors-General of the Council Secretariat have received the following instructions:'All texts submitted to the Council or its preparatory bodies and which affect the decision-making process or reflect the state of work regarding a certain dossier shall be produced as standard documents. In conformity with the existing internal rules for the establishment of Council documents, the references of all these documents will be automatically entered into the Council's public register. All room documents, non-papers and the like submitted during meetings of the Council or of its preparatory bodies shall be mentioned in the outcome of proceedings of those meetings or in a list to be annexed thereto.'That is a great success for Parliament, the Council and the complainant, and there is good cause for adding the matter to the minutes.
Mr President, in the European Union there is a network of so-called rural carrefours, which basically provide European citizens involved in this issue in rural areas with information on agricultural policies. There are 138 in collaboration with public and private bodies, none of them profit-making, and they have been very surprised by a decision of the European Commission’s Directorate-General for Press and Communication, of 29 September, which withdraws the aid they were receiving to meet the operating costs of these rural centres or carrefours.I believe that this Parliament should express its concern, because one of the most important resources we have for coming closer to the citizens is currently being seriously hindered by this Commission decision. I would ask you, therefore, to intervene in relation to this issue and to ensure the good functioning of these centres, for the sake of informing citizens in these rural areas and the European Union’s agricultural policies.
Mr President, Commissioner, I am able to say straight away that I support the resolution. The resolution deals with those aspects we are discussing in Parliament and, in general, with what gives rise to the problems in the regions when we implement such dramatic decisions concerning certain fish stocks – in this case, cod in particular. There can be no doubt that there must be a balance in the marine environment. There must be a balance in the stocks. Clearly, such dramatic decisions can, however, be damaging to the regions and to those communities that depend upon fisheries and the industry surrounding fisheries. The EU must therefore intervene and raise some of these problems.In that connection, I should also like to draw attention to the fact that fisheries-based industry and gutting and canning firms must have raw materials, and it is therefore now time for us to review the tariff barriers that prevent the raw materials from reaching our companies in the EU. Price mechanisms and tariff barriers mean that the prices for these raw materials are very much higher than the prices for the same raw materials on the world market.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the European Union sets great store by equal rights for men and women and also by development cooperation policy. We are all familiar with the poignant examples: the Nigerian woman, Amina Lawal, who was going to be stoned while her lover got off scot-free; women who, simply because they are women, have no access to loans to set up small businesses; girls who continue to be denied education because as women, they will not need it anyway and they can meanwhile help out in the home. A great deal remains left to be done.We incorporate it in every regulation, but ‘paper is patient’ and it is difficult to implement it. Especially in the delegations, expertise is required in this area. I think it is somewhat disappointing that the Commission, during the review of the regulation – which lapses at the end of 2003 – presented a proposal that seeks only to act as a catalyst. From reports of the results of previous actions, it transpired, in fact, that these were not very impressive, while moreover, the planned budget is only partly being used. I do not want to go into the reasons for this, but I hope that this new approach, which the Commission supports, will be more effective. Commissioner, the budget for this regulation is small, too small according to my committee, even if the Commission wants the objectives to be achieved by synergy and other actions and programmes.I would therefore underline the fact that it is essential to have experts on the ground. That costs money. Surely, we should be able to find the money? This requires training and refresher training, as I heard from Peru’s delegation only last week. However, constant requests are being made for the more effective regulation of these matters elsewhere too. Three years is not long, but it would be good if we could say: ‘Look, progress is being made, more women have a prospect of a say in the political, social and economic spheres; more girls are allowed schooling and women are also entitled to good health.’ Commissioner, I am making an urgent appeal to you.
Following on from the points of order made earlier today, I am grateful the President is going to raise the issue yet again with the Greek authorities.I am speaking particularly about my constituent Wayne Groves from Tamworth. He did not even possess a camera so I still do not know why he is being held in detention. He is sleeping on a floor with a thin mattress, as I understand are the other prisoners. He has been there for three weeks. Why, when the magistrate said yesterday that there was no real evidence against them, are they still being held?I believe along with everybody else that this is in contravention of the European Convention on Human Rights. If applicant countries have to say that will adhere to it before membership, surely current members should adhere to it now.
Mr President, further to yesterday’s minutes, I would like to express my great disappointment at the fact that even fewer than 200 Members attended the votes yesterday. I conclude this from the minutes.
Mr President, I very much welcome the Commission’s report. It is a splendid piece of work that Commissioner Monti and his staff carried out last year. In my report on the twenty-ninth report on the Commission’s competition policy, I expended particular energy on the problems concerning mergers and the repayment of State aid. I did this for a number of reasons. Firstly because, in the course of last year, I was approached on a number of occasions by companies which have felt a certain degree of powerlessness in connection with rulings on mergers, especially in relation to those cases in which they have needed to appeal to the Court of First Instance against the Commission’s ruling. With regard to State aid, moreover, problems apparently still exist with ensuring that unlawfully paid State aid is paid back to the national exchequers.Let us begin, however, with mergers. One consequence of EMU is, of course, that we see more and more mergers. I also think the time is ripe for re-assessing whether the procedures and sets of rules we have at present are as good as they could be. The world is not, of course, always so easy for those who have to follow the rules and procedures we are involved in devising. I think it is necessary for clear rules to be devised for what is called the relevant market. It is important to distinguish between what may be called the peripheral areas of Europe and what may be called the heart of Europe. It is especially important to put this distinction in place before enlargement, for it can be difficult for the smaller countries in the peripheral areas when companies wish to merge, because the latter quickly become large players in their own market. It is not especially appropriate that larger companies in small countries should be prevented from merging for, in that way, their opportunities to compete globally are reduced.I should therefore like to remind you that we do, of course, have existing rules to take care of those circumstances in which companies exploit their important and possibly dominant market positions. We therefore need not perhaps be so afraid of mergers. After all, it is not a crime for companies to merge. Another thing I feel very strongly about is the need to arrange for mergers to go through more quickly. I am thinking here, in particular, of those circumstances in which a company wishes to appeal against the Commission’s ruling. Quite simply, a period of between 25 and 35 months is too long in our global village for getting a case through the courts, and what is very time consuming is having the documents of the case translated. That is not good enough. We owe it to our companies to offer them the best conditions so that they are able to plan their production and, especially, their future.On the subject of mergers, I have two questions for you, Commissioner Monti. Would it be possible to consider different possible solutions for separating the Commission’s functions of judge and prosecutor? For example, could there be a panel of independent experts during the second hearing so that it is not exclusively people from the Commission who assess individual merger cases? I also have another idea, even if it is perhaps a touch outside your sphere of authority. Might not a committee of experts or an expert tribunal, specialising in companies, be set up in the department of first instance at the court in Luxembourg? In Denmark, for example, we have a special maritime and commercial court dealing exclusively with issues relating to companies. I would also take the opportunity of asking the Commissioner to explain why one of the most trusted merger specialists has left the Commission.The other subject I raised in my report is that of State aid and the repayment of State aid which has been awarded unlawfully. I make no secret of the fact that I feel very strongly about tightening up on the repayment of State aid which has been awarded unlawfully, especially since this is another area it is important to sort out before enlargement. It is good that State aid to shipyards in Europe should be phased out as per 1 January 2001, even if it is extremely problematic that our shipyards should continue to have to compete with the South Korean treasury. In the light of the latest development, I can appreciate why the Commission has, with good reason, adopted a harder line on South Korea. I am wondering, therefore, if you could report on the very latest developments, Commissioner, even though I am well aware that you only have limited time available.I also want to take the opportunity to ask Commissioner Monti if and when a public, efficient and properly functioning register of State aid may be expected to be put in place and, in the same vein, when the long-promised scoreboard is to become a reality. Finally, I want to emphasise that, for me as a liberal, it is crucially important that companies can be sure of being dealt with properly and efficiently in all areas, so that there are no hitches where companies’ future legal certainty is concerned. I should also like to thank my fellow MEPs in Committee for the splendid way in which they have cooperated in connection with my report.
Mr President, the slaughter of the Berbers is a fresh reminder of Algeria’s horrific reality. Once again, our courageous foreign affairs ministers have decided to put their heads in the sand. The entire world is being condemned, except for Algeria. However, neither the oil interests, nor the current negotiations are enough to keep the gross human rights violations under wraps. The MEDA agreements demand respect for diversity. One third of the Algerian population are Berbers. Pluriformity should form part of the state fabric. Cultural, linguistic, but mainly social rights must be recognised if Algeria wishes to become a Treaty partner. It is questionable whether we should enter into an agreement with Algeria where human rights are being violated on such a massive scale, even by government officials. In my view, this can only be done if the government assures us that it will make every attempt to prevent the wrong-doings, and to prosecute and bring to justice those responsible, from whatever quarter. An agreement on judicial cooperation is only meaningful if this is given substance by the Algerians. At this moment in time, I still have grave doubts as to whether that is the case. If I look back on ten years of oppression and extreme violence, I am shocked by the statistics. One hundred and fifty thousand killed and on top of that, 10 000 people who have disappeared without a trace, and Europe remains silent. President Bouteflika constantly promises to contain the violence. He pledges to investigate the recent tragedy in Kabylia, but will the guilty be punished? I should like to reiterate it: the State’s most fundamental task is to protect its population. It is shameful that the Algerian authorities should not be able to put an end to the abhorrent reality in their country.
We have voted in favour of the overall motion for a resolution, because it is most promising at a time when it is very necessary to strengthen the EU’s defence and security policy. Where collective defence is concerned, we attach importance to NATO’s remaining the indispensable link binding the United States to Europe’s security interests, and we continue to attach great importance to the maintenance of good transatlantic relations.We cannot, however, support the Member States’ and the candidate countries’ being called upon to apply the principle of Community preference in purchasing arms, in order in that way to guarantee the security of supply. As liberals, we support in this case too the principle of the open market economy, for that is what will guarantee arms purchases of the highest quality.We have declined to vote in favour of the desire for a protocol to the Treaty, adding a collective defence clause for those Member States that wish to divide the obligations embedded in Article V of the Brussels Treaty and so bring the Western European Union to an end. We believe that responsibility for Danish security lies first and foremost with NATO.
Mr President, Denmark and Mr Haarder have today received well deserved praise. I agree with that praise. However, I am less satisfied with the EU’s refugee and immigration policy. The proposals are more often than not about control and repression. The global perspective is easily lost. What is required? Well, that poverty in the world be combated and that we obtain more aid, more trade and more democracy. Mr Haarder is well aware of this. We need a humane asylum policy based on respect and human dignity. All human beings are entitled to seek asylum within the EU. Not all will have reasons for requiring protection that enable them to stay, but all must be dealt with under the rule of law and under decent conditions, as well as having, for example, access to the labour market. The fact that the EU is opening the door to immigrant labour should ease the pressure on asylum policy and, at the same time, give us an opportunity to cope with the increasing population problems.The fact that the EU needs a common asylum policy is shown by the Danish example. When Denmark tightens up its policy, the refugees come to Sweden. A humanitarian EU must be able to do better. That requires codecision making in this Chamber, something of which Mr Haarder is more aware than anyone else.
Mr President, Commissioner, no one is unaware of the loathing felt in this house for the death penalty, wherever it may occur. The European Parliament is continuing its long and dedicated battle against this barbaric punishment, and we know that we have a good ally in Commissioner Patten. Commissioner, we really appreciate your work in this area. Our joint fight has resulted in one applicant country after another abolishing the death penalty. This requirement is irrevocable for membership of the European Community. It is high time that Turkey also abolished the death penalty – without delay.It can sometimes feel hopeless fighting against the death penalty when the world is the way it is. Mr Van den Berg has just mentioned figures showing the worldwide situation. It is important to note that 90 per cent of all executions occur in only four countries. The worst by far is China with over 1 000 executions this year alone.It is also deeply tragic to have to place the US on the same list as the dictatorships. Over and over again, we have appealed to the American leaders to introduce a moratorium on the death penalty and to stop sentencing teenagers and the mentally disabled to death. Just the suspicion that one single person has been falsely executed – and we know this has happened in the US – should be sufficient reason to abolish the death penalty.However, there is some light at the end of the tunnel. It is encouraging that there is a certain, albeit slow, shift in opinion in the US. It is also the case that, during the 1990s, 30 countries abolished the death penalty. Here in Strasbourg, a successful conference was held two weeks ago. Both the EU and the European Council will continue to fight tirelessly.In order to further strengthen the fight against the death penalty and to ensure that this issue is always on the agenda, a year ago in this House my colleague Mr Rutelli proposed a European day against the death penalty. We could hold this every year until the death penalty is abolished everywhere. It is encouraging that this is also the view of this House, and I hope that the Council and the Commission can work with the European Parliament to bring about such a day.
Mr President, I would like to refer, firstly and above all, to the joint resolution which will be laid down to round off this debate. My Group has made a contribution to this resolution and, needless to say, approves of it. More specifically, however, I would like to express our delight at the fact that, after such a long time, Israel and Syria are on speaking terms again to resolve their differences of opinion. The recent negotiations are already an important step towards a permanent peace in the Middle East. It is, therefore, regrettable that these peace talks have been suspended for the time being.Indeed, both parties will need to make huge efforts. Lasting peace in the region can only be achieved by means of an agreement which guarantees the security of the Israeli borders, as well as Syria’s integrity. It is also necessary to initiate permanent diplomatic relations and to establish constant dialogue.In addition to the bilateral meetings with Syria, I hope that Israel will also enter into negotiations with Lebanon within the foreseeable future and that, in the framework of economic and regional cooperation, a multilateral approach will appear possible.Nevertheless, it is still regrettable that the European Union, one of the most important financial donors, is still unable to play a major political role in the peace process. This peace process in the Middle East is one of the priorities of the European Union’s common foreign and security policy. This is where Mr Solana, the High Representative to the Council, could come into his own. The Commission and Member States also have to be encouraged to support projects which can help develop understanding and partnership between the different nations in the region.I should also draw your attention to the significance of the Barcelona process which should have a beneficial impact on regional cooperation. In this respect, we support Libya’s participation, provided that it recognises human rights, renounces support for terrorists and fully supports the peace process. There are still, needless to say, many unresolved problems and unanswered questions, also involving the Palestinians. Everyone knows that the peace process is a protracted and difficult affair but we are convinced that, with the necessary trust, perseverance and indispensable political will, our common goal, namely a peaceful and prosperous Middle East, will be achieved.
Mr President, I thank Mr Solana for his extremely interesting statement. But reading between the lines, as one should, it is fairly clear that not much progress is being made to reform the Council. Perhaps it is quite unrealistic to think that there could be progress before the problems are dramatised with the presence of 25 or so ministers at the table. But, frankly, I find it extraordinary that Mr Solana and Mr Blair and several others can float the idea of creating an executive committee formed out of the Council presidency without referring to the role of the European Commission.It would be best to be blunt here. The imposition of a board of directors of the Council would steal the Commission's right of initiative and destroy its critical role in identifying and expressing the common interests of all the Member States. It is only the Commission that can ensure the equality of all the states.As to the question of the presidency, no debate could be complete without considering whether it would be the proper thing, in the end, to let the Commission chair the ordinary meetings of the Council, while letting Mr Solana chair the Foreign Affairs Council, preserving the routine six-month circus for the European Council itself. That might be the most appropriate approach to ensuring tight coordination and continuity within the Council.Finally, we should refer to the Byzantine tangle of comitology. The efficiency of the Union will be greatly improved as soon as the Commission is granted sufficient executive authority to act without the constant interference of the Council. So reform has much further to travel before the Convention will be satisfied that we have grappled satisfactorily with all the important questions.
Mr President, on behalf of my group, I am particularly happy that Parliament has today given a strong signal of cohesion on a matter as important as combating corruption. Parliament has given a clear answer to the citizens, who are facing a serious lack of confidence in the transparency of the markets and many institutions.The European reference framework on combating corruption is still fragmented, non-binding and in need of a bold step forward. The Danish initiative on corruption in the private sector is an initial step in the right direction, but we need to go further, especially in view of enlargement. Parliament has asked those Member States who have not yet done so to ratify the European Union Convention and the Council of Europe Convention on corruption in the public sector. If this does not happen, Parliament has asked the Council to submit a new framework decision on corruption in the public sector. This is the focus of the report. Some States are anticipating the implementation of the European arrest warrant, like the United Kingdom, which was the first country to transpose the arrest warrant into national law with the Extradition Bill.(Text abbreviated in accordance with Rule 137(1))- Report Ribeiro e Castro (A5-0374/2002)
Mr President, I am taking the floor because I should like to congratulate the rapporteur on the report he has prepared and thank him for the sterling work that has been done. It is incredibly important that the European Parliament should keep this debate on the agenda and also never stop further developing not only the debate but also the practical proposals. I shall not present an inordinately long general and specific introduction but merely refer to Mrs Kinnock's words, with which I can declare myself completely in agreement.I thought it might be discussed how much benefit we derive from a meeting such as that taking place in Johannesburg. Listening especially to those who participated in the Rio Summit, the impression can be created that Johannesburg is really just confirming what we achieved back then in Rio, and that is of course a rather sad state of affairs. I just saw the problem's being that, without these summits, we could not ensure that the debate continued but, that being said, Mr Deva has of course shown us one of the ways in which it can be.Before I discuss individual points, I want to say that I of course think it important that we make demands both of ourselves and of the developing countries in terms, for example, of good governance, to which Mr Deva has also referred in his report. I should then very much like to comment on the first points mentioned by Mr Deva, namely points A, B and D in which he clearly emphasises that globalisation is here to stay, which is of course a good thing. If, however, we do not temper globalisation, it may end up by marginalising a number of countries and a number of population groups in those countries. This is, in my view, an incredibly important message. The second important message conveyed by Mr Deva relates to a situation outstandingly exemplified by ourselves and the EU inasmuch as we have of course grown up within the framework of protectionism. Moreover, it is as if we completely forget this when we go on to discuss the developing countries.It is a very exciting train of thought Mr Deva has embarked upon when it comes to enterprises, which we cannot manage without. I should like, however, also to say that enterprises must not be used as a poor excuse for doing nothing in the sphere of general aid on which we unfortunately see countries cutting back at the moment.
Mr President, when, during the Swedish Presidency one and a half years ago, difficult negotiations between Parliament, the Council and the Commission resulted in agreement on Article 255, or Regulation 1049, this was a major step forward. Common legislation on the rules for citizens’ access to documents was an important step towards increasing scrutiny of, and confidence in, the European institutions. Transparency is the basis of a democracy and the precondition for citizens’ being able to follow and participate in public decisions. We can therefore increase confidence in, and the legitimacy of, EU cooperation as a whole, two things that we unfortunately know are both in short supply.We liberals always push for maximum transparency. We were not entirely satisfied with a number of sections of the legislation, and we believe that there was an exaggerated fear of releasing documents.When it comes to the Common Security and Foreign Policy, this is an area in the course of development. There is major interest in these issues among citizens and journalists. Naturally, certain documents cannot be made public. Such documents must be kept confidential. We also realise this. Having a small group of members who have access to these highly sensitive documents is, however, one way of ensuring a certain degree of, admittedly limited, parliamentary control in this area, which thus puts pressure on the Council.In this way, Mr Brok’s proposal is a wholly reasonable agreement. The Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reform Party believes, however, that it is necessary to make sure that it does not become too common for documents to be automatically referred to this small committee. Most documents should, of course, be made available to everyone else, the general public, journalists and every other interested party. There should be a few absolutely vital and sensitive documents which are made available to this smaller circle.I was pleased that Mr Brok said that we should have a careful evaluation of this agreement. We could have this in conjunction with a general review of the transparency regulations. In this way, we will hopefully come to realise that transparency as a principle is not dangerous.
Mr President, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, it is important to reinstate market confidence. It is, however, still more important to restore citizens’ confidence in the food they buy and eat – in actual fact, it is perhaps in that way that the market will be strengthened. The crucial factor is that it should be possible to trace with certainty the origins of what we eat.Amendment No 29 is very important for producers, above all perhaps for small producers in vulnerable areas. This Amendment would entitle producers to provide information on the label in addition to the name of the nation where the goods concerned originate. There would be the option to state, for example, the particular area from which the meat comes or the fact that a particular breed of cattle or special breeding methods have been used. However, there should be no legislation on this matter, other than a ban on lying.I am very pleased about Mr Whitehead’s remark about minced meat. I fully and wholeheartedly support Amendment No 30 from the rapporteur. For me, the most important aspect of this whole issue is that no exceptions should be made for cheap food. We who sit in this Chamber, for the most part middle-aged and well-to-do, know perfectly well that it is young people and families with children who buy and eat the cheapest food – sausages, hamburgers etc. In all social systems and at all periods in history, the most vulnerable groups have had the least purchasing power. It is our absolute moral duty first and foremost to make cheap food safe before we do the same for fillet of beef.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank Mrs Corbey for addressing these issues and writing this own-initiative report. We really need to discuss packaging.I nonetheless think – and I say this following 30 years’ experience of environmental issues and environmental debate – that, as usual, we have an incredible talent for running after problems and battening upon them. To discuss packaging solely from the perspective of waste, as we are doing now and have always done, is completely wrong. I address the Commissioner with responsibility for environmental issues directly and appeal to her to allow us to discuss the whole chain. We have to discuss logistics, transport and the packaging that eventually becomes waste. Above all, the amount of consumer packaging must and can be reduced. You and I come from the same country, and we know that experiments led to a 30 per cent reduction in the quantity of material in consumer packaging over approximately three years. It is possible. I might perhaps be allowed to appeal for the forthcoming White Paper on Integrated Product Policy to address the whole of the logistical chain, something which did not feature in the Green Paper. That would be a merciful answer to our prayers.
Mr President, since 11 September, we have all said that Europe and the USA must stand shoulder to shoulder because we share common values. We must support our ally in its time of need in the same way as America came to Europe's aid twice in the darkest hours of the last century. Yet, this support need not be uncritical. True friends and allies must talk to each other and, more importantly, listen to each other. Sadly, as the Commissioner has said, there have been too many examples recently of poor communication and the turning of deaf ears in transatlantic relations.As the Commissioner demonstrated admirably to Mr Elles, candour is sometimes an obligation of friendship. We must say candidly that on some issues Europe believes the US has got it wrong. Claims that the International Criminal Court would have untrammelled power to prosecute members of the US military are simply not true. To disown the body will not prevent it from going ahead, the US will simply lose all influence over the way the rules develop.American arguments at the UN summit on children against safeguards – because they would prevent judicial execution of minors in Texas – offend the European concept of justice, just as US treatment of Taliban prisoners in the Shibarghan camp in northern Afghanistan seems to us to violate the Geneva Convention.Staying out of the Kyoto agreement on climate change means that the US is free-riding on the efforts of others to tackle global warming. How can we expect the developing world to make its industries environmentally sustainable when the world's leading economy passes the buck so shamelessly?On steel tariffs also, US policy is misguided. Rather than re-structure its steel industry, the US risks losing the moral high ground in the global campaign for free trade.However, the breakdown in communication across the Atlantic is due not only to errors of judgment on the US side. It does not help that the European Union is at sixes and sevens. Mr Prodi and Mr Aznar looked distinctly uncomfortable with each other at the summit. The failure of Member States to back the Commission in its response to the steel tariffs dispute undermines the credibility of the Union and weakens our negotiating hand.The Union's failure to speak with one voice, from Iraq to India, makes it mighty difficult for the US to know where we stand. For the Union to have a credible foreign policy we need a common security policy. It is no use establishing a 60 000 strong rapid reaction force if we cannot get it up and running in practice or reach agreement on a common arms procurement policy. In other areas too, from policing on the ground to a single European sky, we will not be taken seriously by the Americans until we get our own act together.Finally, the Union could take a leaf out of the US book in its policy towards China over Taiwan. It is disgraceful that Taiwan, a fully-fledged democracy since 1987, is made a pariah by EU governments which claim to represent democratic values. It is high time that Member States stood together behind the EU flag to open normal relations with Taiwan and take a stand at the UN Human Rights Committee in Geneva against the PRC's human rights abuses.In conclusion, the European Union would be better placed to engage in a real dialogue of equals with the US, if we displayed more unity and demonstrated more backbone. Liberal Democrats look to the Convention on the future of Europe to deliver a federal European Union with a real common foreign and security policy, so that Europe can use active diplomacy to strive for a new approach to global development and convince our American friends to follow.
Mr President, the treatment of animals is a question of civilisation. Pets are cherished, but cattle is often still treated abominably. Intensive cattle farming has elevated animal abuse to a methodology. The policy is unilaterally focused on cheap production. Animals have degenerated massively into commodities you eat or which earn you money, instead of living creatures with an intrinsic value.It is high time that animals were no longer adapted to suit their environment, but the environment to suit the animals. Drastic improvements are required in terms of their accommodation. For example, pigs and calves must be kept in groups and must be given plenty of straw. The castration of pigs, bobtailing and the cutting of teeth must be banned. Laying hens must be kept exclusively in spacious, free-range bird houses. The artificial, fast-track breeding of chicks and turkeys must be discontinued. Cows must regularly be led to pasture again and geese must from now on be spared torture for the sake of their tastefully prepared livers.It is sheer madness that pigs are dragged across Europe for the sake of being able to label them ‘Parma’. Long hauls with live cattle must be abolished. In my view, four hours, or 250 km, are the maximum. The inspection of cattle transports must be tightened considerably. International trade should be conducted in meat and not in live animals. Proper slaughterhouses must be set up everywhere, so as to restrict transport. Cattle markets must be abolished.The recent disasters may well be the salvation of future animals, but only if we gain the awareness that animals are more than mere production factors. Until such time, animals will suffer, and people will suffer from a lack of civilisation.
Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the honourable Members from the various groups for supplying the 32 signatures which allowed me to submit a number of amendments in Parliament. I am absolutely convinced that we must endeavour, on a couple of points, to revert back to Parliament’s opinion from the first reading, which we adopted exactly two years ago by a very large majority. It is mainly to do with tightening up on private copying, establishing clear regulations for the on-line storage of data so that the responsibility of Internet providers is better defined in line with the e-commerce directive, and the possibility of Member States being able to introduce technological protection measures without disrupting the internal market.Why am I defending this opinion? First and foremost for reasons of principle. Is there anything more important than protecting private property? Is there anything more personal than the product of human talent, the creation of something which rejuvenates. The European Parliament has always been the guardian of Europe’s cultural heritage and that is how it must stay, also in the digital age. If we do not put a brake on indiscriminate copying, there will soon be nothing left to copy. After all, if we fail to provide protection, people will lose the incentive to be creative and produce new works of art.But there is more to this debate than principles. Copying will also cost jobs. According to current estimates, one hundred thousand jobs have been lost in the European Union owing to the copying of CDs. The State loses out on income too. Apparently, the State of Belgium alone, which I know very well, misses out on one billion Belgian Francs in VAT as a result of this practice, and the same goes for all government coffers. We must be in no doubt about what it is we are risking. I would like to echo Mr Rothley’s sentiments. So all in all, I think there is good reason to support the amendments which I tabled, together with many of my fellow delegates, for which I would like to thank you in advance.
Mr President, I too should like to thank the Council and the Commission for their reports and, in common with others, express my regret at the fact that coherence policy has not been given more prominence. But we who sit here in Parliament do not doubt for a second what the reason is. I should therefore like to discuss something more general and begin with a couple of, in my view, useful figures. At the beginning of the nineteenth century, real per capita income in the world’s richest countries was three times higher than in the poorest countries. In 1900 it was ten times higher and in the year 2000 it is 60 times higher. And there is no sign of this trend’s being reversed. On the contrary, it looks as if we have entered an exponential curve which is widening the gap still further. This is shown by the following figures: the income gap between the richest and poorest fifths was 30:1 in 1960, 60:1 in 1990 and 74:1 in 1997. These figures are from before the Internet revolution took off. In other words, there will have to be a quantum leap in development policy if the rich countries, including the EU countries, are not to surround themselves with barriers to prevent immigration on a massive scale. In a global village, major discrepancies in the world will not, in the longer term, be tolerated by the poorest section of the village. At some time or another, there will be a revolt, and it will be fully justified.I would therefore urge the Council’s Presidency to set the promised debate in motion as quickly as possible and, above all, to conclude it in such a way that we all of us, including the people of Europe, realise what globalisation means and understand that a central element will have to be radical changes in the nature and the level of the development aid we provide. The EU on average is far from providing the pledged 0.7%. It may well be that others are worse, but that does not place us in any better a light. Above all, however, we should give the countries concerned the opportunity to trade with us. As far as I could hear – but I may have missed something – the President-in-Office of the Council did not mention the word “trade” at all. I would just say to the Commissioner that I hope his proposal will be successfully adopted by the Commission and the Member States. I would also ask the Commissioner to give some concrete examples of sectoral interests which are holding matters up, not only in the Commission but also in the Member States. I should also like to say that, in my view, what would be most effective would be for Parliament to call for proposals from, respectively, the Development Council and the Commissioner for Development. In that way, we should perhaps have a basis for  discussion, instead of receiving proposals from all the governments and from all over the Commission, which is scarcely likely to produce results. I shall conclude with a few words about the Internet revolution. As Commissioner Liikanen keeps saying on his travels, we have a head start here in Europe in the area of mobile telecommunications. Let us use this not only for the benefit of our own populations but also for that of the developing countries. This technology can facilitate that necessary quantum leap forward in development policy to which I referred and, in this connection, the EU can set the agenda, leave its mark on development and honour its global responsibilities.
Thank you, Mr President, Mr Haarder, ladies and gentlemen, the International Criminal Court is officially a reality. Nearly four years after 120 countries rubberstamped the Rome Statute and the establishment of the Court, it opened its doors in The Hague yesterday, on 1 July 2002.The European Union is fortunately a staunch supporter of the Criminal Court, but the United States is its most radical opponent. The Americans are now running a campaign against the Court in order to prevent its own citizens or military from ever being able to be taken before the Court, and they do not stop short of threats, for example by showing their willingness, if necessary, to sacrifice the entire UN police force in Bosnia for this.My group emphatically rejects the campaign by the United States against the International Criminal Court. The so-called ‘Hague invasion act’ is a serious violation of the agreements between the NATO allies. At one time, back in 1945, the Americans were our liberators, and now they are threatening to invade Scheveningen. I too would gladly present them with Dutch new herring, Mr Van den Berg.Why exactly are the Americans kicking up such a fuss? Does the American administration not believe in its own legal system? After all, the Court is only activated when the country in question takes no, or insufficient, action in trying crime.However, two things should be prevented by Europe.This week, it transpired that the UN mission in Bosnia is at stake.My group deeply regrets this dramatic step which jeopardises the UN peacekeeping operations in general. It was therefore appropriate for NATO to hold an emergency meeting, but at this moment in time, a practical solution to Bosnia appears imminent; this conflict, however, may in no circumstances compromise future UN peacekeeping actions.This immediately brings me to my last point. The conflict surrounding the Criminal Court could widen the gap between the European Union and the United States. I call on both the Council of Ministers under the Danish Presidency and the Commission to make every effort in order to keep relations with the US as smooth as possible in the interest of us both and the rest of the world.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, in your report, you described a make-believe Europe which, if it were real, we would want too. However, we can see that you are preparing for the adoption of a Constitution which will silence, weaken and condition Europe’s institutions. Moreover, you are increasingly bending Europe’s will to US and Soviet diktats. On this occasion, at least, we would like you to set aside personal ambition for once in favour of the collective interest.Give up the pleasure of, at all costs, signing your name at the bottom of the draft European Constitution which blocks the possibility of future amendment, gives the Commission a degrading role and provides for paralysing unanimous decision-making in the Council. We would also like you, at least for as long as you are President-in-Office of the European Council, to refrain from underselling Europe’s role in upholding human rights, even when they are attacked by the Americans at Guantánamo or the Russians in Chechnya, for the sake of a weekend at Camp David with President Bush or a trip to Sardinia with President Putin.Speak out on these issues if you have the courage, providing, of course, that you do not find you have a conflict of interests in those areas.
Mr President, it is sometimes hard to keep a clear head when grievances fill the air and I think we are seeing the results of that. It is clear that certain allegations have been made about the activity of certain Commissioners and others in a case involving fisheries, but this matter has been considered by the Conference of Presidents. The Fisheries Committee has been asked to look into it and report back to the Conference of Presidents and I understand that the Budgetary Control Committee is also looking into it. It is important that we allow due process to take place in Parliament before raising these issues in plenary.It is also important that we do not mix the question of these allegations with a very important communication that the Commission has brought forward on the future of the common fisheries policy on how to safeguard fish stocks for future generations. So I would ask you, Mr President, to ask Mr Schulz, on behalf of the Socialist Group, to bring this back to the Conference of Presidents in due course.
Mr President, Commissioner, first of all, I want to emphasise that I am not speaking on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party. There are a good few of our members who have genuinely attended to this issue, who are on the way here to our debate today but who will not perhaps be in time for the vote.I personally believe that we shall be adopting too many amendments. If we examine research programmes and research issues, there is scarcely any research programme in the whole of Europe that is so driven by politicians. That is in total contrast to, for example, the assessment made by Manuel Castells – yes, it is legitimate to call him a sociologist – together with the Finnish philosopher Pekka Himanen as to why Finland is successful as an information society. In their perhaps otherwise rather vague book, they observe that our technology and innovation policy are successful because we have a complete and autonomous centre for technical development. That is something which I think invites reflection. In other contexts, it is usual to applaud Finnish innovation policy. I think that a certain lesson can be drawn from this.In addition, I want to emphasise an aspect of this proposal that particularly bothers me, namely that the social research proposed would certainly be allocated to the wrong place, under the Information Society DG. Social research does not belong in that context. I do not properly understand how this has happened.We are also aware that interest in research issues has, to a very large extent, revolved around stem cell research. Today, we can adopt a position on the Caudron proposal in peace and quiet. I personally view the committee’s proposal as being well balanced. The committee’s proposal also shows the modesty and respect that is required when we debate research issues. I think that those who say that we should now concentrate first and foremost upon stem cells from adults are not showing the required modesty faced with this new area. In the course of the work in the Temporary Committee on Human Genetics, I learned that we know extremely little. We must adhere to the old principles and proceed further within the various frameworks. Furthermore, I learned that the research projects for both forms of stem cells are dependent upon each other. It must therefore be possible for them to be given the same priority. That, I believe, is extremely important if we are to be able to move ahead as a successful society.I hope that these comments are not too alarming, but that they lead to reflection on the part of all who are interested in our researchers’ really being able to carry out good research.
When, a few weeks ago, I once again read the Commission’s progress report on Lithuania, it occurred to me that the progress reports are being produced as if it were the previous enlargement we were talking about, that is to say the enlargement which took place before the Treaty of Amsterdam came into force. The Social Chapter is the corollary and counterpart of free movement of services and labour mobility.My question is about whether the forthcoming progress reports will, to a greater degree than the previous reports, take account of employment and of the Social Chapter, which is now a part of our ‘acquis’. I believe, in fact, that we can succeed in enlarging the Union if we combine these two aspects: firstly, the free movement of services and employees and, secondly, more equal conditions when it comes to the dialogue between employers and employees. The Social Chapter is, in fact, a part of our common regulations, with which the candidate States must also comply.
Mr President, I would like to start by congratulating the rapporteur. Next, I would like to point out, in a spirit of realism, that the Member States have often chosen to forget a very simple but obvious fact: that throughout history, no matter what the geographical circumstances, no barrier has been able to prevent people in search of refuge finding a way to cross the border or the barrier itself. I feel, however, that this report does justice to the problem and seeks, first and foremost, to find a sufficiently sound solution, not least with a view to finding a better alternative to the Dublin Convention itself. This is therefore an important contribution which will undeniably improve on the regulation.I have to say that, with regard to the current situation, the report seeks to find a balance between two conflicting requirements: on the one hand, it attempts to prevent abuse of asylum procedures and, on the other, it attempts to provide effective access to the procedures for determining the refugee status of those who genuinely need it. At the same time, there are new criteria and new derogations that we welcome, aimed particularly at preserving family group unity in one Member State. The same applies to the responsibility placed on a Member State which does not take effective action against the illegal presence of third-country citizens on its territory, making liability equivalent to that of a Member State which fails to control its borders properly.We therefore feel that the Council must introduce a ‘fair and efficient’ asylum procedure and a ‘clear and workable’ method including these new provisions on the criteria and mechanisms for determining the Member State responsible for examining an asylum application.Lastly, we welcome, in particular, the fact that Article 27 of the regulation, Mr President, bans any discrimination based on sex, race, skin colour or even age, a criterion whose introduction we feel to be necessary and particularly progressive.
Mr President, my congratulations to Mrs Myller who I know has thought long and hard about this report. It seems to me that the debate comes down to this: do we believe that the Gothenburg Protocol was the best Member States can realistically achieve? I recognise that the Commission and environmental groups believe that in practice much more can be delivered but nonetheless some Member States have committed themselves to significant reductions in air pollution – though that is certainly not true of all of them. Some Member States seem to have gone into the negotiations with a few calculations on the back of an envelope and refused to compromise in any way to set themselves any realistic targets. Others have not even used the same methodology, the same basis of calculation as others. So the protocol in many ways is a nonsense. It can give us no confidence whatsoever. It is a messy political compromise and nothing more.I do not know how much more the Commissioner can achieve but we should be seeking reductions in air pollution and we should be giving her our support in her efforts to negotiate them. We should support this report and give her our backing.
Mr President, I would like to thank Mrs Stenzel for her very effective and useful report. I cannot claim to be a close observer or to have very detailed knowledge of the operations of the agency and therefore I find her report very valuable. As someone who for the last three years has been on the delegation to south-east Europe and more recently a vice-chair, I feel it is essential that we keep up and develop the financial assistance to allow the Balkan countries to aspire to the eventual goal, which must be membership of the European Union.I was one of those who was not convinced by the original decision to site the headquarters of the agency in Thessaloniki. It was the rather traditional story of doling out prizes to Member States. I may have slightly changed my view because Greece is playing a very valuable role in leading and in coordinating regional cooperation. Yet I think we need to reconsider whether this is the most effective way for an agency that has several different bases to operate.The agency is doing a good and essential job. It will be important over time to rationalise and if possible to expand our assistance to the Balkans. This assistance must evolve from reconstruction to development, just as it evolved from emergency aid to reconstruction.The network of agencies that are perhaps in danger of tripping over themselves in south-east Europe is a challenge we have to resolve. It is a very complex scene – a kind of alphabet soup. It is very difficult, even for someone in my position, to understand who does what and I am not sure what the impact is on the local citizens.Mrs Stenzel makes several valuable points, among which is the need for agreements with other donors on 'sharing' out who is responsible for what sector to avoid overlaps. She particularly mentions that the agency should take the lead on energy in Kosovo, with which I would agree. She also emphasises the need for a strategy on the future of the agency's relations with EU delegations. I wonder from my experience in Skopje whether we have not gone too far in bypassing the competence of the local Commission delegation. I felt there was a danger of the agency taking a slightly imperialist tone towards the local delegation. In view of the upcoming elections on 15 September, I am still not sure that we have reconstructed enough houses there.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the liberal group is not very happy with the rapporteur’s proposals. Firstly, because they contain legislation which is not workable in practice and harms the competitiveness of self-employed drivers. Secondly, because compliance with the rules cannot be monitored or enforced. They are therefore unnecessary, and the liberal group is always opposed to such legislation. Thirdly, there is sufficient national legislation. Even the Common Position is giving this due consideration. And if there is any legislation required at all, then the majority of my group are satisfied with the common position. The transport sector consists of a few major businesses, and their employees must be given sound working conditions. It is in the interest of the internal market that a European framework be created for that purpose. But the transport sector also consists of many small, self-employed drivers. They are independent businesses with one or two lorries which service a vital segment of the market. They must be able to do their work, their businesses must be profitable and their services competitive, and they must not be bogged down by unnecessary red-tape and legislation. One of our major objections is therefore to the proposal that self-employed drivers will need to comply with this legislation in three years’ time. It would be preferable to see what the proposals bring and only then to consider whether self-employed drivers should adopt this framework or whether separate regulation is required.As for night work, we agree on the times as described in national legislation, for they offer plenty of flexibility. However, the period of availability is creating problems for us. Here too, we would like to take a pragmatic approach. Drivers often face unforeseen hold-ups, as a result of which they need to have more frequent breaks to eat, for example. There are other reasons for long delays. If all that were to be included in working time, the driver would very soon reach the maximum limit, as a result of which productivity would decline unnecessarily. That has little to do with health and safety.Finally, the definition of working time is far too detailed. Here too, the liberal group has chosen to subscribe to the common position. You will gather from my speech that there are a few additional aspects which I have not mentioned. I cannot explain those rules to the voter. The liberal group will be voting against the relevant amendments and in favour of the common position.
Mr President, the low turnout at the elections might well give people the impression that this Parliament has little say. Nothing could be further from the truth, as is once again borne out in the annual discharge debate.The dismissal of the Santer Commission was the turning point in the Union’s financial management. Whilst the Council granted discharge to the same Santer Commission unthinkingly, this Parliament did take its responsibilities seriously. Not only has this increased the political weight of discharge, at the same time, a U-turn has taken place from a bookkeeper’s mentality to one which is focused on content and effectiveness.The representative body of the people should not only ensure that all receipts are in, but should also check whether the tax money has been spent wisely and whether a result has been achieved. In this respect, assistance from the European Court of Auditors is at hand. However, the Committee on Budgetary Control believes that the monitoring procedure could be far more effective still. For that to happen, the Court of Auditors would need to embark on a consistent naming and shaming, in other words the public pillorying of those Member States who fail to get their act together.In addition, we would like to see the percentage of errors at national and sectoral level clearly quantified in order to gain a better insight into the problems which spending entails. Should this not be possible this year, then the Court of Auditors should in any case draw a distinction between major and minor errors when introducing a so-called Richter scale of errors. Furthermore, the Court of Auditors must realise that it is not above the law itself. It should stop resisting a true audit on itself and must publicise its financial interests on the Internet.Unfortunately, we have to establish time and again that Europeans, whether they hail from north or south, east or west, have little faith in the European Union’s bookkeeping. It is the costly duty of each and everyone who is involved in the financial monitoring of the European expenditure to win back the confidence of the European citizens. This confidence is a pre-condition for the further political success of European integration, and that confidence can only be regained by maximum transparency. The Europeans want certainty that their money is being spent in the best possible way, and where that is not the case, that the organisations and Member States involved are actually called to account.There is another institution – quite a major one at that – which believes that it stands above the supervisory power of the EP: the Council of Ministers, which was once again of the opinion that its presence was not required today. Via a so-called gentlemen’s agreement, Parliament and the Council have agreed not to monitor each other’s spending. This was done in the spirit of ‘If you do not check me out, then I will not cast a critical eye at you either’. Needless to say, this hardly contributes to restoring public confidence. As long as this approach involved purely administrative expenditure, this was perhaps justifiable to some extent.However, we now see that the Council is assuming further operational responsibilities. Not only does this undermine the position of the Commission, it is also subject to little democratic control. This is why the Committee on Budgetary Control has reached the conclusion that the agreement is due for an overhaul. The Court of Auditors must report on the Council’s spending in the same way as it does for other institutions. The surreptitious manner in which the Council is drawing power towards itself without accounting for it contravenes all basic principles of democracy.Budgetary legislation, and powers concerning budgetary control, have always been strong weapons for this Parliament when it came to plugging the different democratic holes. We owe it to our electorate, where possible, to exercise democratic control. Especially in the case of the Council, where the democratic hole is the biggest and is only threatening to get bigger, this form of control is crucial. Also as a message from this Parliament to other institutions, this is, therefore, an important choice to make.I can be brief about the committees and agencies. Europe is still under construction and is, as all dynamic processes, subject to change. It is thus no longer logical to scrutinise structures from time to time in the light of all the changes. All European institutions must continue to demonstrate their added value. They must ensure that the money of the European taxpayer is spent wisely. How do they impact on legislation? Do they operate efficiently? It is, naturally, regrettable that the discharge of the Economic and Social Committee has been postponed for the fourth consecutive time due to deception involving non-existing airline tickets. We should really close this chapter once and for all.All that remains for me is to congratulate the many honourable Members who have been involved in the discharge, on their reports. The Committee on Budgetary Control has mainly adopted a restrained and intelligent stance by granting discharge to the Commission, but under strict conditions. We are stepping up the pressure to bring about reforms within this Parliament too. Only if we subject our own actions to the same strict requirements which we impose on other institutions, will we remain a credible reform mechanism.
Commissioner, thank you very much, that is very promising. When the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs debated this Commission proposal on which I was a rapporteur, we found that none of us in the Committee were aware at all; and I wonder if the public listening to Question Time in the gallery are aware either. So there is still a great deal to do. Thank you for your offer to send me more information. I accept your offer and since we 626 MEPs are the contact between the EU and the public, would you like to write each of us a simple little letter making all of us in the Parliament aware of it? You could just print these off in the eleven languages and every Member will become conscious of it and we could all help to publicise this European Union facility in our Member States!
Mr President, I have an interest in a sector affected by the Commission communication which is the subject of this report. As a result, I will not take part in any vote on this report. I must do likewise with regard to the following report by Mr Alyssandrakis on radio spectrum policy, unless you can immediately formally acknowledge my declaration.
Mr President, it is common knowledge that the most recent ministerial conference, in Cancún, sadly ended in failure. It is good, therefore, that the European Commission now wants to take renewed action to get the current negotiations started again. The proposed development round must not fail; it must be brought to a successful conclusion. After all, a great deal is at stake. There is the potential risk of the World Trade Organization and the multilateral trading system becoming completely undermined. Bilateral and regional trade agreements are not a viable alternative in an increasingly globalised world, and in a system that has contributed to stable and sustained economic growth for almost 55 years now. Therefore, it is high time that the welcome discussions on the subject matter were complemented with improvements in WTO working methods.Negotiating and taking decisions by consensus in a forum with 148 members requires procedures that are up-to-date, simple and efficient, but at present that is precisely what the WTO’s procedures are not. It remains my deep-rooted conviction that the WTO is more necessary than ever, because, particularly as far as the European Union is concerned, further liberalisation of world trade and the removal of barriers to trade are the key to increased economic growth and employment.
Mr President, last week, on Wednesday, to be precise, the new office of the Church of Scientology was inaugurated in Brussels with great pomp. I must express my surprise, Mr President, that such an event could take place right in the middle of the European quarter. I must also condemn the misrepresentation which may have occurred, for this office is called the ‘European Office for Public Affairs and Human Rights’.As Members of Parliament, we all received invitations to this inauguration ceremony, which we found in our personal letter boxes in Parliament with a label indicating the numbers and floors of our offices. The invitations were not stamped, which means they were distributed. I would like to know how it is possible for these invitations to have been distributed and who brought them to the European Parliament. I feel, Mr President, that we should be more careful where a sect such as this is concerned, which is to be tried in Belgium in a few days’ time for swindling, misrepresentations of all kinds, the unlawful practising of medicine and a great many other offences of which it is accused.
The European Heads of Government in Thessaloniki spoke almost continually of the need for speaking with one voice. That is what they all want, as long as that voice is their own. If they do not let go of this attitude, little will change, despite the Convention and despite Mr Solana’s interesting document. There is little one can say in the way of criticism about his analysis, but therein lies at the same time its weakness.The report speaks about what unites us but is silent about what divides us, and that, in practice, is precisely the problem with 25 Member States. The threats in an enlarged Union do not only lie beyond Europe’s borders but also within them. We can see eye to eye with Mr Solana at the abstract level, but God forbid that this should become a little more concrete. I fear, above all, an internal rift about the attitude with regard to America’s role in the world, and hence about how to tackle the major breeding grounds of conflict. Mr Solana is right to say that an effective European Union could have a considerable impact, one that is conducive to a fair, safe and multilateral world. We must develop our own security policy, but we have not managed to do this to date, unfortunately. The Iraq crisis was not only about Iraq, but also about a new distribution of power in the world and inside the European Union.Since the fall of the wall, external policy in the European Union has been re-nationalised. Heads of Government, especially those of major Member States, seek to compensate for the loss of national sovereignty and identity in many areas by raising their own national profile in the area of foreign policy. Unfortunately, the Convention bears out current practice by maintaining the rule of consensus. Even the voice of a European super-Minister for Foreign Affairs can only be heard when the cacophony of his national colleagues has fallen silent.
We have voted against Mr Kirkhope’s report on carriers’ liability and call upon the French Republic to withdraw its initiative regarding penalties for carriers transporting passengers with inadequate travel documentation. The Council’s initiative is another in the series of fragmented proposals aimed only at excluding people from entering the European Union.For us, it is unthinkable that the Member States’ responsibility for checking passports should be transferred to private transport companies. It is unfair that check-in staff at airports and at harbours, air stewardesses or ticket collectors should instead be given the right to decide who should be granted entry to the European Union. That is precisely what the result will be if the rules of the Schengen Convention and Mr Kirkhope’s proposal regarding penalties are put into practice.The right to asylum under the Geneva Convention must be a cornerstone both of Schengen cooperation and of the EU’s common refugee and immigration policy. The severe sanctions proposed by the Council constitute a significant threat to the right of asylum. The many people who at present succeed in fleeing from war and oppression and arriving at the EU’s external borders would never succeed in entering the EU if new or increased penalties were to be imposed upon transporters.Free movement within the European Union must not be implemented at the cost of the EU’s erecting barriers against the surrounding world. Continued cooperation within the Schengen framework and the common immigration and asylum policy must be characterised by the European tradition of a generous refugee policy in which the right to asylum is guaranteed.
Mr President, although strictly speaking Rule 9 does not provide for this, I would like to declare an interest in relation to the four reports on the Telecom package.
Mr President, the Parmalat case is difficult to solve because we have not got to the bottom of the responsibilities and complex and ambiguous mechanisms that allowed it to happen. To consider it to be just an Italian scandal is a limited outlook. It is, in fact, an international affair of vast proportions, in which internationally important banks are involved.The losses that savers have had to endure are, however, very clear to everyone. It is them that we must think about and we must look into, and encourage, the application of adequate measures, such as specific types of insurance, able to indemnify small-time savers involved in the collapse. Moreover, what has been described as the largest financial and accounting fraud ever registered in Europe dramatically highlighted the serious lack of rigorous and effective rules that are capable of preventing cases of the falsification of company accounts which, in accordance with a recent Italian law, have been decriminalised. It is essential that, in a common market such as the European one where the Treaties state that the constitutional principles of free circulation of people, goods, capital and services apply, the Commission intervene in order to give greater protection to citizens against this type of fraud, and that it does so through Community measures that are capable of stepping up the monitoring of accounts audits for Union companies.This, however, is not enough. L'Italia dei valori, chaired by Mr Di Pietro and part of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, calls for strict rules to be established at European level to prevent any type of unfair economic or financial assistance at a company or individual level among companies active in the 25 Member States and structures operating tax havens in ‘rogue states’. In particular, a strict economic embargo, binding in this sense, would force the whole of the international community, including the USA, to act in an honest manner, so as to be able to prevent the reoccurrence of unfortunate episodes such as those that we have been talking about.
Mr President, Mr Ebner, I would like, at this juncture, to bring in an oral amendment. With your permission, I would like to replace ‘in the official language’ in the last sentence with ‘in the official language or languages’.
Mr President, the Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan pipeline is being built and funded -including by taxpayers' money – through the World Bank, EBRD and European export credits, even though it does not meet international environmental and human rights standards. This report rightly demands the application of the EU Environmental Impact Assessment Directive.Now it appears the coating on pipeline joints is poor and likely to result in major oil leakage and pollution. BP apparently knew this a year before securing the backing of international funders. The credit should be suspended while an independent enquiry is carried out into the safety of the pipeline for local people and the environment, and also into its financial viability, if at least EUR 800 million needs to be spent relaying it.Turkey's guarantees to the BTC project regarding opt-outs from new environmental and social laws break its obligations under the EU Accession Partnership: they would be illegal if Turkey were already in the EU. The Commission has failed to act, so NGOs are now taking the matter to the European Court of Justice. We must help Turkey prepare to meet EU commitments, not break them.
Mr President, I would also like to thank the three rapporteurs for their fine reports and add that I definitely believe that these reports indicate that we consider the budget a political instrument. The three reports establish a number of obvious political priorities. In particular, I should like to highlight Mr Costa Neves’ report. It contains a follow-up to the decision made at the Lisbon Summit last year and confirmed at the Stockholm Summit, namely that we must create the most competitive economy in the EU within the next ten years. I think this is a splendid priority, and we must ensure that it is reflected in the Budget, especially within the area of what are called internal Community policies. I am also delighted that we are continuing the work of ensuring that structural fund appropriations are followed up so that what we commit ourselves to is also what is put into practice and so that a proper balance between commitment and payment appropriations is established.In collaboration with the Liberal group, I have put forward an amendment to the effect that we must continue with the reform of the funding under the so-called ‘A 30 lines’. Some organisations are funded year after year and actually become dependent on these funds. This is something that must be addressed. As a parliamentarian, I believe we must support the Commission’s work on ensuring transparent management of the funds so that taxpayers can be certain that efficient management is in place and that the political objectives are being fulfilled. The argument that ‘we are used to being funded’ must not be the decisive factor, and there must be the possibility of innovation and new initiatives. Finally, I would like to add that it is important that we continue to support the Commission’s reform through our prioritising of the Budget. It is essential for the EU that the Commission has a good reputation externally and that there should be no doubt that we have a good and stable administration. In this respect, we should obviously take account of the future significance of enlargement for our administration .
Mr President, the approval of the resolution on regional and minority languages will provide a fitting end to the European Year of Languages. It is satisfying for me and for other Catalan Members: Obiols i Germà, Terrón i Cusí, Colom i Naval, Jové, Mayol, Gasòliba i Böhm and Ferrer.It is very positive that a resolution is recognising the equal value and dignity of all European languages and urging the Commission and Council to act decisively in this field and to find a permanent legal basis.We regret that our initial proposal, which called for full recognition, has not been accepted.This resolution demonstrates an unacceptable situation: the fact that the European Union, which derives its wealth from its diversity, should have so many European languages seeking a legal basis in order to be supported is – I repeat – regrettable.Yesterday, a report requested by the Research Directorate-General and presented to the Intergroup on minority languages reflected these difficulties.My language, Catalan, is one of these languages. It is the seventh language when compared to the eleven official languages and the ninth when compared to the 22 languages following enlargement. A recent conversation I had with my friend and fellow MEP, Mr Sakellariou will demonstrate the situation.I said to him: Jannis, the language you speak with your parents – Greek – can be spoken in this House; the language you use with your countrymen – German – can be used in this House; the one you use with your wife – Spanish – can be used in this House. The language I use with my parents, in my work and my life and which I use with my wife not only cannot be used in this House, but we are seeking a legal basis so that it can be supported.You will understand that my only objective here is the recognition of Catalan as an official language of the European Union. This hope is better expressed by my friend, the poet Jordi Gabarró. He says in Catalan: 'Demà, en un futur de convivència, la raó ha de guanyar'. In English: 'Tomorrow, in a future of coexistence, reason must prevail'.(Applause)
Madam President, the central question seems to be whether this Parliament and the European Union show themselves to be sufficiently self-assured to confirm Turkey’s status as a candidate. A failure to do so will provoke a serious crisis in our relations with Turkey. Nobody wants special treatment for Turkey and nobody should ignore the series of problems over the treatment of the Kurds or over the situation in Cyprus.My group believes that the discipline of candidate status will involve Turkey in more serious preparation for membership, a stronger dialogue and greater exposure to European Union culture and politics. Parliament has certainly been dragging its feet on this issue, as the MEDA programme and the financial support for the European strategy show.The Liberal and Green groups have tabled an amendment calling for the clear prospect for membership to be opened up. This would encourage the forces of progress and reform within Turkey and increase the leverage of the European Union upon Turkey’s future development. This position is supported by the Cypriot and Greek governments and Parliament would be reactionary should it fail to be in the vanguard of progress here.I plead to all those who want Turkey to modernise on the basis of its European traditions to support our amendment.
I put this resolution forward on behalf of the  Group because I believe the EU arms embargo should not be lifted on 17 January. What we should have instead is an extension of that arms embargo. It would be definitely unacceptable to lift it. The army have failed miserably to disarm and disband the militia. They have been terrorising between a hundred and two hundred thousand refugees in West Timor. They are not allowing aid workers into the camps. In one camp 160 have died. 90% of those were children under five. As has already been said, they are not cooperating with the UN International Commission for Crimes Against Humanity and they are also committing crimes and atrocities in Aceh and West Papua. One case I heard of recently was that the police and the army together beat up a young man. He was going to look for his mother. They beat him up and interrogated him and kicked him to the ground. After that they poured gasoline over him and burnt him alive. That was in North Aceh. It is still happening. The Indonesian Army and the militia and the police are still committing these atrocities. To raise the embargo would give totally wrong signals.I heard also recently about a secret defence intelligence report from Australia. Some of the EU countries did not want to agree to the ban in the first place. Some EU Member States put financial gain above human rights and I do not believe that that is acceptable. While the Indonesian army is still engaged in acts of repression, the embargo must stay.
Mr President, Mrs McCarthy stated that it is up to the Commissioner to find such a compromise. I would take the liberty of proposing Amendment No 32, containing a simple system through which proposals can be submitted in English or another of the Community languages. Summaries of the applications would be translated into all the Community languages.I wish to emphasise that this amendment would mean citizens’ being given a glimpse of the monopolies that restrict their opportunities. I should also like to point out that there are other factors just as important as the Community patent when it comes to increasing the number of innovations within the Community. I believe, for example, that the inventions of universities and the latter’s opportunity to exploit these are pivotal. In Europe, we at present have rules which are difficult to interpret and which mean that the universities cannot make the most of their opportunities.I would urge the Commission to review this aspect which affects a relatively large number of countries, as well as the right of universities and researchers to their inventions. We are now in the process of creating a vigorously competitive system, and it is not necessarily only European inventors who may benefit from this. It is competing systems that are crucial when it comes to the Community patent.
Mr President, Commissioner, naturally, the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party strongly condemns the murder of the Irishman, Archbishop Courtney, and demands that the authorities immediately carry out an extensive investigation to find out who murdered him. The people responsible must be held accountable and punished. The important work for peace done by Archbishop Courtney must not, of course, die with him, but must live on. We also extend our condolences to his family and relatives and to the Irish people. Perhaps what happened may lead to the Irish Presidency intensifying its work to support the peace process in Burundi.It is unclear who murdered Archbishop Courtney. The rebel movement, the FNL, has denied all involvement, but nor does it support the peace process. We would, however, call upon them to lay down their weapons and support the peace process, and we would also express our pleasure at their having in actual fact agreed to meet Burundi’s President and engage in talks with him. Perhaps that will lead in time to support for the peace process and negotiations. Burundi is a tragic country in every respect, with extensive destitution in social and humanitarian terms, a good deal of violence, especially against women, and acts of considerable cruelty involving a disregard for human rights. The peace process is very fragile. Many people are guilty of extremely serious war crimes. We strongly oppose any move to grant these people any kind of general exemption from punishment. Burundi should instead implement what was decided in the Arusha Agreement and ratify the charter of the International Criminal Court, or ICC.The wounds in Burundi following 300 000 or more murders will never heal if justice is not seen to be done and the murderers not held accountable. People must be given the opportunity to move forwards, and the national process of reconciliation must continue. We support the setting-up of a UN peacekeeping operation and hope that the EU may do all it can to help in supporting the peace process. We have high expectations of the donors’ conference later this year.
On behalf of the, I should like to thank the Swedish Presidency for its skilful leadership and the good start it has made. We have high expectations in connection with the key issues identified by Sweden, and we hope that Sweden will also make transparency a key issue. On that point, we can all learn from Sweden. We must have access to more documents, and it is completely unacceptable that we should sit here in Parliament without knowing what our own ministers are saying and doing in the Council when they legislate. That is something which must be changed.We are delighted to see the Swedish foreign minister, who of course comes from a neutral non-aligned country, travelling around with her new travelling companions, the Commissioner for External Relations, Mr Patten and NATO’s former Secretary-General, Mr Solana, and we are delighted when, today, we hear the Swedish Prime Minister speak in favour of a common foreign policy. We hope that he too will discover the value of using the European institutions, that is to say the Community method, rather than the intergovernmental method he has so far been a little too fond of.In Macedonia, we sincerely hope for success in ensuring greater equality for the Albanians. That is the only way to peace. If only we could also learn to take action before extremists begin to use violence. In that way, it would be the moderates and not the men of violence who obtain the credit for the results.With regard to enlargement, which is also a Swedish priority, we should like to see still greater commitment on the part of Sweden. That is more important than anything else for securing peace, freedom and prosperity in Europe. It is also high time to prepare for the crucial reform of agricultural policy. We in thehope that you will listen to our colleague, Mr Olsson, who has proposed holding a round-table conference with the new countries on the subject of future agricultural policy. It is high time we put our minds to the problem. We wish you every success, Mr Persson, and, regarding the Lisbon process, my fellow Liberal MEP will take the floor later and comment on what you have said.
Thank you, Madam President. My group is also of the opinion that the Commission proposal is a very attractive one. My group has always taken the view that the use of agricultural products for industrial purposes should be promoted. I can imagine this proposal on biofuels being the first of many, as agricultural products can also be used for other purposes, such as lubricants and recyclable plastics, to name but two. A whole range of other uses can be added to this.As other speakers have already stated before me, Europe is over-dependent on energy imports. We import about 50% or 45% of what we need, and this dependence is likely to increase. The Commission is therefore on the right track with this proposal. One of the things that should be considered is how we can make vegetable biodiesel even more effective. Doubt has been expressed from various corners, to which I do not entirely subscribe, as to whether biodiesel is all that profitable economically and ecologically speaking. I believe it is, but the Commission might be able to make some changes for the better.Something which is not included in the Commission proposal, but which I very much approve of, is that pure vegetable oils too, and not only biodiesel, can be used as fuel. The technology for this is of German origin and involves the use of a special engine. Why should we not give it a try? Why too, would it not be possible, if farmers use their own vegetable oil, for them to receive tax exemption for this? We will support this at any rate.As far as taxes are concerned, various countries have in the past tried to promote biofuels and there is a tax discrepancy in different ways in many European countries. We take the view that this should be maintained for the time being. In my opinion, this could in the long term give rise to competitive differences, and we should be able to prevent this from happening. We believe that it is acceptable for these tax differences to continue until about 2008, but by that time, a certain harmonisation will inevitably have to occur, and I welcome the fact that the Commission monitors this.In a nutshell, the Commission should be congratulated on this proposal, pure vegetable oils should also be included and, in order to promote the use of agricultural products in general in future, the Commission must table proposals on lubricants, recyclable plastics, and so on.
I abstained during the vote on Mr Garot's report, despite the fact that it backs development and reform in the direction of agricultural policy with decoupled premiums and strengthened rural policy.The report does not, however, take sufficient account of the restrictions that govern the funding of the Common Agricultural Policy. Even the financial leeway available impacts on the policy to be adopted. I should particularly like to draw your attention to paragraph 25, in which cofinancing for agricultural and rural policy is rejected. In my view, compulsory cofinancing is precisely one of the key instruments that can help adopt a common agricultural policy in the future.
Madam President, you referred to Saint Petersburg and the June Summit, but you in fact have another Summit this week – with Russia.How are you going to address the issue of sustainable development in the discussions at the Summit with Mr Putin? Are you going to touch upon the issue of energy conservation? Are you going to broach the sensitive subject of new energy extraction in Arctic areas? Will you be going on to produce a report on the way in which Russia has complied with its earlier commitments from the previous Summit between the EU and Russia in which one of the promises made was to protect the environment in the Bay of Finland when constructing the harbour in Primorsk?Will you be demanding that Russia ratify the Esbo Convention on environmental impact assessment in a transboundary context? I am just mentioning some of the areas you touched upon at the most recent Summit.The situation in the Bay of Finland is very sensitive because a port is in the process of being constructed in Primorsk.
Secretary-General, Liberal Democrats and Reformers in this House echo your words on immigration. We recognise the value that immigrants bring to Europe and we understand that closing Europe's front door will only drive the desperate to seek access through the back. Many of us were migrants once upon a time and we know how ill it behoves our generation to shut the gates of mercy on mankind. A Europe of security and justice for all is a Europe that extends those rights to those who justly seek a new life here. Like you, we recognise the political challenge that implies.Your words today remind us of the power of the United Nations to transcend the parochial in us all. The United Nations has a precious power to speak for us all. That is why my Group wishes to see the return of the United Nations to Iraq as soon as the security situation allows. Credible and legitimate democratic government in Iraq is not possible without the presence of the United Nations.(Applause)We want a political settlement in Iraq that guarantees the highest standards of civil and political rights for all Iraqis.The United Nations was founded by the same generation who founded this European Union – ‘to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war, which twice in our lifetime has brought untold sorrow to mankind’. Like this Union it believes that the closer we sit at the table of peace and prosperity, the slower we will be to reach for the tools of war. It is a sorry testament to a stubborn world that the UN still seems such an unlikely experiment in international governance.Winston Churchill once said that the UN is designed not to take us to heaven, but to save us from hell. In order to do that better the UN must reform. As its largest contributors, the EU and its Member States have not only the weight to insist on reform but the responsibility to do so. A mature Europe would find the political will to put behind it an institutional settlement at the UN that leaves power where it lay in 1945. A mature Europe would insist on a permanent membership that reflected the realities of the 21st century. It would accept that the current veto is a tool of obstruction, a privilege that can no longer be justified.Finally, Secretary-General, on behalf of theallow me to pay tribute to the members of your organisation who will not see you take this prize in their name today. Your staff who lost their lives with Sergio Vieira de Mello – including Fiona who was known to me – died defending a vision of national renewal in Iraq that is now our duty.(Applause)
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the news last Sunday about the death sentences issued against the four people involved in the student disturbances over the summer in Iran sent a wave of disgust and indignation among the Iranian people and throughout other countries. The shock was that much greater because many of us were delighted at the election of President Chatami and at the signals of openness, reforms and respect for human rights which he was giving out. The Iranian people could at last begin to hope for a new future and for a time when the period of killing and violence would be behind them.Following the student demonstrations in the summer, President Chatami promised open and just trials for those involved. It is therefore incomprehensible and deeply worrying that the legal process was held in secret and that the death sentences against four people were published almost en passant in a newspaper interview. The light and hope which were kindled among the Iranians following the election is now at risk of going out, and the improved relations between the EU and Iran are at risk of cooling. I nonetheless hope that the President can draw strength from the massive support he obtained from the voters in the election and that he will act to ensure that the revolutionary court repeals the death sentences so that Iran might continue along the road to reforms and the development of a civil society.This Chamber strongly condemns the death penalty wherever it is practised and will continue to do so. Offences against human rights can never be merely a matter of a country’s internal affairs. I hope that this message will also be conveyed by the Commission.
Madam President, I would like to declare an interest in the subject of this report.– Before the vote on recital H
Mr President, we need to ensure the viability of the sector that is vital for employment and economic and social cohesion in the Union's coastal areas. We need to maintain sustainable marine ecosystems conserving fish stocks for future generations. Parliament's resolution the green paper identified the fundamental aim of the CFP as attaining a balance between the two.amendments to the Jové Peres report seek to ensure the long-term future of the 12 mile limit and of relative stability. These are essential both to the sustainability of fragile coastal communities and of the stocks on which they depend. We aim to specify more clearly the other measures that need to taken to protect stocks. We would rename regional advisory councils as regional management councils. This makes it clear that such councils should have a real role in helping to formulate and to implement the measures needed under the reformed CFP.In particular, we must use these councils to help achieve the fullest possible understanding of the functioning of marine ecosystems. For example, recent research suggests that an increase rather than a decrease in nephrops quotas could actually be positive for the regeneration of cod stocks.Finally, balancing the viability of the sector and the sustainability of stocks is not just a matter for the reform of the CFP. It is precisely what is required in the current cod crisis. It is good that the Commission has addressed the socio-economic problems but the measures so far seem like prescribing a couple of aspirins to cure a severe case of pneumonia. So we are formally in support of the resolution. Let us hope that a proper implementation of CFP reform will prevent any such crises arising in the future.
Mr President, just as the Commission and we in Parliament change our methods of working, the former through its White Paper, the Council too must of course change its own methods of working, both in the light of enlargement and because, as many people point out, its present methods do not work so well at present. Mr Poos has much long-standing experience of how the Council operates. I hope that the Council will take his views on board. I assume that this issue will come up at the convention and that, as Mr Verhofstadt said this morning, there will be no taboos.Precisely what shape is to be taken by the Council’s work is not of course something we Liberals have any reason for taking a view on, because it is not our task to regulate these matters. There are nonetheless certain issues in which we think we can become involved. Transparency is one such issue. For us, transparency in the EU’s work is important when it comes to all the institutions. It is a key to winning back people’s confidence in the European project. At present, the Council meets behind closed doors and legislates for millions upon millions of Europeans. That is not acceptable. Everyone talks about this, and everyone criticises it. Very minor reforms take place, but these are not enough. The legislation must be a matter for public debate. A separate department must be formed within the Council in which the ministers meet entirely openly and in public in order to legislate. There must, moreover, be proper Minutes issued afterwards. The members of this legislative Council must of course be politicians, not officials, with clear mandates from their respective governments.Another issue which worries us rather, and which Mr Poos also addressed, is that of all the overhyped ‘mini-summits’ which assume an enormous amount of importance. A great many decisions are made during these meetings of rather doubtful status. We hope that less emphasis will be placed on these meetings and that they will instead be transformed into working meetings.There is an increased tendency in the Council – not so much in the country that at present holds the Presidency, but in many others, especially Sweden – towards intergovernmental activity and a desire to strengthen the Council at Parliament’s and the Commission’s expense. We view this development with great concern, because more intergovernmental activity and more decisions behind closed doors scarcely lead to a more democratic EU.
Mr President, as rapporteur, I would not like to see any ambiguity left about one section in the decision-making process. I should therefore like to urge you to consider complying with the EPP's request and permitting, at this stage, an oral vote on point 16. I appreciate that you would then have to go back on a decision, but I should nevertheless like to urge you to treat this report in such a way as to leave no misunderstanding or uncertainty on this matter at all. I would therefore make an urgent appeal to you now to honour the request.(Applause)
Smoking kills: it causes 500 000 deaths every year in the European Union, which is 1400 a day or almost one a minute. One smoker in two will die, sooner or later, from a smoking-related disease. These figures speak for themselves and are terrifying.Surely we need no further reason to support the proposed directive in its current form, quite rightly amended by our rapporteur, Mr Maaten, whom I must congratulate on his remarkable work, the broad outlines of which I have supported.Tobacco is not just like any other product. It requires specific regulation and it is most apt, in light of recent studies, that the Commission has proposed a revision of the legislative texts in this field.Although it may seem naïve to try to eradicate smoking, I think that we can certainly reduce it considerably by providing the consumer with better information. We have just declared ourselves in favour, much to my satisfaction, of warnings that will cover 35% of the front and 45% of the back of the cigarette packet. Personally, I am sorry that most of my colleagues could not be convinced of the impact that photographs on these surfaces would have had.I supported Amendment No 75 on banning the sale of tobacco products to anyone under the age of 16. To the anti-prohibitionists, who feel that this ban would, on the contrary, make cigarettes more attractive to young people, I would answer with an ethical argument. Our society has the duty, in certain areas, to set strict moral limits. It is the whole issue of human behaviour that is at stake here. This also raises the whole issue of education and of health education in particular. Such education must be started at the earliest possible age, and I think that adolescence is an appropriate stage to instil in young people the limits that they must not transgress.On the basis of ethical considerations, too, I feel it is reasonable to ban exports of products that we consider to be harmful to our own citizens to countries outside the Union. I voted in the strongest possible terms against Amendment No 54. Europe has other assets and other creative ways of finding export markets.During yesterday’s debate, some Members raised the point that smoking kills more people than tuberculosis, Aids or other infectious diseases. This factor alone is sufficient reason for us to grasp this problem with both hands. Mr Maaten’s report is a step in the right direction, but is only one step, because the fight for life, for health, is an ongoing struggle that should engage us all.
Mr President, I think the report in question is a quite good one, above all because Parliament’s first positions, especially in Amendment No 5, are being maintained.For certain professional groups, establishing working hours is not only a question of doing the obvious and protecting the individuals concerned but also, and to a large degree, a question of our own general safety. The roads are not going to become safer and better if those who drive heavy goods vehicles are not alert and wide awake but tired and irritated. This is a matter which concerns all of us.Young junior doctors’ working hours must also be reviewed directly from a public health point of view. Firstly, to demand from these young junior doctors an average of up to 60 hours’ work per week during a four-month period is ruthless exploitation of young people, because they have to do these shifts in order to pass their exams. Secondly, it is the rest of us who are going to meet these young junior doctors out in health centres and casualty departments. In those circumstances, one can only hope that they are fully rested and wide awake and can at any rate judge whether a particular case is one they can deal with themselves or one for which they need recourse to a colleague on duty. Once again, I want, as a minimum, to support Parliament’s first position.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I want to begin by thanking Mr Maat for his excellent cooperation in connection with this report. Partly in conjunction with Mr Kindermann, we have prepared quite a few amendments, and this has, in my view, turned out to be an excellent report. I should also like to thank the Commission which, without hiding anything, has clearly described how the Member States have implemented or, more to the point, failed at all to implement, the many decisions taken in 1991 and 1995. It is really frightening to see how European ministers sit and take joint decisions about something as important as animal welfare and the transport of animals under satisfactory conditions. They then travel home and totally forget what they have been involved in deciding, that is to say they do not transpose any of these decisions into national legislation.We could have well done without the huge number of hideous television pictures we have seen of animals suffering in a wide range of appalling situations. Lorries have been opened, to reveal dead animals inside, with other animals trampling upon them. That situation is simply unacceptable, and it must be brought to an end now. It is therefore time to put a stop to our traditional practices of many years in the EU whereby animals are transported from north to south and from east to west. There is no good reason for doing this. Animals suffer as a result, and the call must now go out for animals to be slaughtered at the nearest abattoir. Obviously, we are also obliged to transport animals for breeding purposes from areas which excel in producing such animals to areas which have a need for new animals of this kind. I therefore look forward to the Commission’s now tabling proposals for common regulations governing the transport of animals, and I repeat: these must not be minimum regulations, but common regulations governing the transport of animals.
Mr President, there are three points I wish to address. The first is the inclusion of a legal base in the Treaty. This is something I favour, but currently as part of a minority in my own Group. We are all fully conscious of the importance of tourism, both to local economies and as a factor of European integration. The problem for some of us, however, is the lack of specification of the extent of the legal base and of just how it would relate to considerations of subsidiarity.Second, there are similar issues related to the establishment of a multiannual programme for tourism. The resolution contains many excellent ideas for the promotion of different types of tourism and for its increasing professionalism. At the same time the Commission is currently concerned about confining itself to core tasks. The question has to be asked whether some of the activities suggested in the resolution might not put more pressure on its resources than is desirable.Third, there are several references in the resolution to permanent employment. Of course the promotion of this is desirable and permanent employment need not necessarily mean full-time employment. But there will always be people who are looking for seasonal employment. Students are an obvious example. We have some concern that the resolution does not give enough consideration to them and to ways in which their interests could receive specific protection.Thus, while complimenting Mr Viceconte on his report and finding a great deal in the resolution to commend, we shall be asking for a number of split votes to allow these concerns to be addressed.
Mr President, nearly ten years ago, in the early 1990s, I travelled through the Khyber Pass, a trip I can strongly recommend to all colleagues – though perhaps not at this moment. At the top there is a small village where you can buy food, water and 'souvenirs'. The 'souvenirs' are drugs, home-made Kalashnikovs and home-made surface-to-air rocket launchers. With the money I had on me I calculated that I could buy ten Kalashnikovs or three rocket launchers. The only problem was how to get them home through customs, so I did not buy them!Coming forward to 10 October this year, at the United Nations in New York there was a speech by the American Assistant Secretary for Arms Control. He used wonderful sounding sentences, such as 'we must redouble our non-proliferation and arms control efforts', 'the entire globe faces a security challenge!' But he had no proposals at all for controlling small arms. Why? Because the extremely powerful and wealthy organisation called The National Rifle Association – the NRA – helped to elect the present administration, which will therefore not stand up to the Association.With the events of 11 September and the high murder rate inside the United States of America, I wonder just what it will take for America to cooperate with the rest of the world on this problem. My Group supports the motion because it is a small step in the right direction.
Mr President, the view shared by virtually all speakers is that the only ray of hope at the moment in Zimbabwe’s anarchy is the fact that elections will be held soon. I agree with all speakers who said that we need to ensure that those elections are held as fairly as possible, which will not be easy. I found the words of Commissioner Nielson encouraging when he said that, as early as the beginning of July, observers will be sent to Zimbabwe. I think that this is vital because those who are not kindly disposed towards the Mugabe regime, those in opposition, will clearly need protection. I would therefore like to back up the Commission in this opinion. Observers need to be sent to Zimbabwe at the earliest opportunity, today if possible, rather than tomorrow.Another worrying development is the reaction of the neighbouring countries. From Europe, we have fought for years to establish racial equality, equal opportunities, democracy, etc. in Southern Africa. At the moment, there is a deadly silence in the neighbouring countries which, in my opinion, is a very ominous development.I therefore hold the view that, if the elections in Zimbabwe were not fair, for whatever reason, the Commission should continue with the course it set a moment ago. If there are clear signs of large-scale fraud and Mugabe remains in power illegally, then, according to the provisions of the Lomé Convention, aid must be halted. If the Commission were not to do this, the illegal dispossessions of land could spread to the rest of Southern Africa and this would be a disaster, not only for the area concerned, but also for the rest of Africa. We must avoid this at all costs.
Mr President, after months of misery it looked as though it was going to be possible for a little ray of hope to shine on Kosovo. The European Union generously released EUR 500 million to help the Kosovars rebuild their country and the Commission did its best too. Instead of the usual bureaucratic “to-ing and fro-ing” between Brussels and the location where the work takes place, the Commission opted for a decentralised agency which was in a position to start work on an autonomous basis. But nothing came of the Commission’s good intentions. Yet again they were torpedoed by political games in the Council. It was due to horsetrading, for it cannot be called otherwise, between the Germans and the Greeks, that the unhappy decision was taken to have the Reconstruction Agency based in Thessaloniki.This leads to wastage, wastage of money, wastage of manpower and wastage of efficiency. It also produces incomprehension in Kosovo, for at the end of the day, it is Kosovo itself that has to be reconstructed and not Greece. But the worst is still to come. Do you know that a Kosovar needs a visa to travel to Greece? And that he can only obtain that visa from the Greek Consulate in Belgrade? Of course that is very hostile territory for most Kosovars, which means that in deciding to base the agency in Thessaloniki, the ministers are excluding the people they are trying to help from the reconstruction process. The members of the Committee on Budgetary Control have decided unanimously, that is across all parties, to reject this state of affairs.We also call for there to be effective supervision of the agency. Some of the points have already been mentioned by my colleague from the Committee on Budgets. Furthermore, we consider it to be of the greatest importance, of course, for OLAF to be able to intervene when things go wrong.I will just return briefly to the question as to where the agency should be based, and I also speak for my group. Mrs Pack has very courageously taken upon herself the task of clearing up the Council’s mess, proposing a completely logical solution that involves establishing the agency in Pristina and linking it with the Stability Pact in Thessaloniki. That ought, at the same time, to give some substance to the motley collection of talking shops we have now.I applaud her intentions, but of course the question is whether the Council is going to take any notice. I think it was made clear yesterday that the Council has no intention of listening to what we want in any way, shape or form. That is why I wholeheartedly support her proposal to postpone things. We are simply going to have to do battle with the Council for what is right and efficient.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are now close to the end of almost five years of work on trying to obtain safer food in Europe. Mr Schnellhardt’s recommendations constitute a very important part of these efforts because they affect the issue of how matters should in practice look in restaurants, shops, abattoirs and cutting plants, irrespective of whether they are large or small.On behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, I am not without certain views to the effect that the matter has taken an eternity. It has been tough. Mr Schnellhardt and I have, of course, had different views on certain technical issues when it comes to both his and my reports, which have a lot in common with each other in certain areas. Nonetheless, I have to say that, in the last analysis, Mr Schnellhardt has done a very constructive and skilful job. There is no doubt about that. I wish to thank him for his cooperation. We shall support the compromise, if not wholeheartedly. There are a couple of small aspects about which I am extremely concerned, for example when it comes to the definition of cutting plants. The definition does not expressly state that the rules in actual fact apply to all establishments that cut and otherwise deal with raw meat. I regret that, because we know how dangerous such plants are for, even if feed producers, farmers, hauliers and abattoirs behave perfectly correctly, hygiene can still be completely ruined at the very last stage.A compromise depends, however, upon both give and take by the parties concerned. The  Group, to which I belong, will not get exactly what it wants, otherwise, we should of course be in a dictatorship rather than in a democratic assembly. I am concerned about the cutting plants. I hope that the European meat industry will go to court if the definition is not interpreted as best it can be.Otherwise, we support these recommendations and are very pleased that we have reached this agreement. I should like to state that those of us who have worked on it have, in general, done some skilful and persistent work to make food safer. I should also like to mention Mrs Corbey and Mr Whitehead. It is perhaps we who have been most industrious in these matters. Thank you for your cooperation.
Mr President, as Mrs Stihler has already said, this proposal is of major importance for Scotland. For example, there is one of our local authority areas that has 26 inhabited islands and a coastline as long as that of France. Scotland, as a whole, has 462 different coastal plans in place, almost three quarters of them locally based.Whilst management of coastal zones must remain predominantly local, national strategies to support and coordinate action are vital. We are fortunate in having a Scottish coastal forum to perform this role. But such good work can be undermined.As the Firth of Clyde forum recently explained, we lack any measure of security, political or financial, which would give us a strong footing for pursuing longer-term management. That is why the Commission proposal is so welcome. I congratulate Mrs McKenna on the extent to which her report has amplified and clarified the text.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his report on this extremely complex issue. Mr President, the nuclear plants in the joint research centres date back to the 60s and were intended to provide direct support to the European nuclear industry. These installations, therefore, should not be considered research installations in the sense that is understood today.It should not, therefore, be the case that the Fifth Framework Programme should single-handedly carry the cost of decommissioning. But the proposed alternative, namely to dip into budget lines which have not been used over the year, demonstrates how little insight there is into the budget discipline. It begs the question how seriously we take ourselves if, every year, we need to look for any left-over funding in order to clean up the nuclear legacy. And how seriously will the electorate take us if we deal with public health and taxpayers’ money in this way?My group will therefore support Amendment No 12 in order, in consultation with the Council and Commission, to reach a final budget decision for 2001 onwards. In addition, my group is of the opinion that we should not only find a budget for installations which are out of action. We should already make provision for the future decommissioning of plants which are still in operation at the moment.Mr President, my group is concerned that in a number of Member States, notably Italy where most plants are located, legislation on the storage of nuclear waste is still in its infancy. This can lead to complications during decommissioning activities and can also result in additional financial problems. Also, it goes to show once again that the drafting of minimum safety standards with regard to the design, construction, operation and decommissioning of nuclear reactors within the European Union is a matter of extreme urgency. I have also suggested including this in the Euratom Treaty at the forthcoming IGC negotiations in Nice.
I wish to put two questions to the Commissioner. Parliament has passed a resolution calling for the polluter pays principle to be applied in this instance and for both the shipowners and the owners of the cargo to be liable. The question for the Commissioner is really whether these principles can actually be applied and whether we will get any money by way of compensation from these people. The second point relates to the future and the publication of the Commission’s White Paper on environmental liability which is designed to ensure that the polluter pays principle applies in future and to ensure that we are better able to enforce European environmental legislation properly.It is recognised in that White Paper that liability is only effective where the polluter can be identified, where the damage can be quantified and where a clear causal connection can be made between the two. The Erika incident could not illustrate the point more clearly because it sums up exactly what that White Paper is seeking to address. This question really would therefore seem to be a perfect measure of how to deal with problems of this kind in future.The proposed directive provides for strict liability for damage caused by EU-regulated dangerous activities and my concern, and perhaps the Commissioner can deal with this, is whether or not the environmental liability paper will be able to deal with problems of the type of Erika in future. Will it really address the concern or will, in practice, in the case of maritime accidents involving ships on the high seas, the polluter once again escape from having to pay for the damage they cause.
In my one minute’s speaking time, I shall confine myself to the Pérez Royo report on the taxation of savings. I am pleased that the rapporteur has adopted the amendment I have tabled in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, which states that this directive shall be subject to agreement to be reached between the European Union and a number of third countries which have the same duty of notification. This is indeed the thrust of the conclusions which the European Council had reached in Feira. In fact, negotiations in this respect are already under way. It is good therefore that this condition is expressly included in the text of the directive which, so far, strangely enough, had not been the case. In my view, an agreement of this kind involving a number of third countries and so-called independent territories is of great importance in order to guarantee the equal treatment of savings both inside and outside the European Union, to rule out tax avoidance and to prevent considerable flight of capital. I do regret, however, that no amendments have been taken into consideration with regard to the application of the directive to legal entities. This would preclude the placing of significant savings of individuals into the accounts of companies, with the intention of evading this directive, an act which cannot be condoned.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in Europe, we have been working on the liberalisation of the energy market for some 15 years now. And directives in this respect were adopted as early as 1994 and 1995, but there are still Member States that keep their markets sealed from new suppliers, France naturally taking the crown, despite the fact that the Sun King has been long dead and buried.Transparent and non-discriminatory access to networks is necessary to break monopolies. In order to achieve this, it is sometimes necessary to take measures that do not appear liberal, such as prescribing fixed rates for transmissions for all users and producers, for this is absolutely vital to grant newcomers access to the market.I therefore hope that the Council in Barcelona will at long last take decisive action and will take liberalisation seriously, for it already agreed in Lisbon that Europe should become the world’s most dynamic, competitive and knowledge-based economy. In order for this to happen, the liberalisation of energy is vital.
Mr President, Commissioner, I would first of all like to thank Mr Jarzembowski for his hard work regarding this matter. The proposed compromise is a cautious step towards opening up the market in port services and increasing transparency in ports. The compromise is not the best possible one, but is nevertheless an acceptable solution. Including pilotage services within the scope of the directive is problematic, especially in areas that are sensitive in terms of safety at sea and the environment. The compromise honed in the conciliation procedure is, however, acceptable in this respect.It is important to increase the efficiency and competitiveness of ports as transport hubs in the development of the transport system throughout the Union. Opening up ports to controlled, healthy competition and increasing their transparency will improve their competitiveness and levels of efficiency, which will increase the use of combined and maritime transport. Maritime transport is vital for overseas regions and it offers a more environmentally friendly alternative in congested areas. This compromise is a cautious step in the right direction.
We have abstained from voting on Amendment No 16 in order to support Amendment No 12 from our own group instead. We support the idea that registered partners should also be counted as family members but believe that this is provided for within the concept of ‘unmarried partners’. We should also like to see more Member States change their legislation so that it recognises registered partnerships for homosexuals and the circumstances in which they cohabit.In applying the definition of family members, it is important however that the principle of subsidiarity should prevail. It is not appropriate for the European Parliament and the Council to change the Member States’ family legislation by means of a directive concerning asylum policy.In Amendment No 12, we have therefore proposed that partners of the same sex should be recognised as family members if legislation or practice in the Member State that receives them entails unmarried couples, same-sex couples and married couples being treated in the same way.
The IGC still seems to be experiencing problems with the extension of qualified voting within the Council. Perhaps we should shift the focus to the issue of extending codecision with the Parliament. Parliament has proved itself a mature partner with the Council in the codecision procedure where it presently pertains. Parliament has also proved itself a serious partner within the drafting of the Charter, and it would be especially refreshing should British Prime Minister Blair publicly recognise that fact.At present the spread of codecision is neither logical nor does it accord with precise criteria. Although the previous Treaty made some progress in extending the formula, it also brought in the crazy formula of codecision plus unanimity for citizenship, social security, the rights of the self-employed and also cultural policy. The Treaty of Nice should stop that practice and extend codecision to some thirty further policy sectors, including competition policy, farm and fisheries, structural funds, state aids, trans-European networks, research and development and also citizenship. At a time when crude balance of power questions are proving fairly problematical for the IGC, surely it is sensible for it to focus on building up cooperation and trust with the Parliament and developing post-national European democracy as fast as possible.
Many of the achievements of Barcelona are, of course, welcome, and I join with those who have been recognising the enormous efforts of the Spanish presidency and the European Commission in pushing forward those achievements. We should be no under illusions, however: the method by which these summits are organised is now in crisis. We are all suffering from 'summititis', a condition in which wildly inflated expectations puff up before each summit. It must be said that this situation is not helped by some rather hyperbolic rhetoric from certain European Union capitals, for example describing the summit as a 'make-or-break event'. These expectations are then inevitably dashed when set against the realities of grubby deal-making in the European Council. This harms the credibility of all of us.It really is time to stop the illusion that suggests that European Union competitiveness can somehow be invented at annual spring European Union summits. That is not how to create competitiveness. Creating competitiveness requires a much more prosaic approach. The Lisbon 2002 objective requires constant hard slog and a consistently-applied approach across many policy fields, not an endless diet of symbolic and tokenistic rhetoric.My final point: competitiveness is not just about how you launch initiatives and how many targets you set. It is also about how legislation and regulation is designed and crafted to ensure that it has the impact for which it is intended. Too often, European Union legislation and regulation have effects which run directly counter to the wider aspiration of competitiveness. I was glad to hear this view echoed by Mr Barón Crespo earlier. I welcome Paragraph 19 of the Barcelona summit conclusions and look forward to the new interinstitutional approach, which we hope will install regulatory impact assessments applicable to the work of all European Union institutions. We look forward to that initiative appearing at the Seville summit.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, both rapporteurs speak from experience, as is evident from their first-rate reports. As far as Mr Mennea’s report is concerned, I have attempted to highlight three points in the amendments which I tabled, and which have fortunately been adopted in the final motion for a resolution. One is the importance of sport as a mental activity in order to learn a number of social skills. Secondly, sport helps us appreciate activities in forma pauperis which involve minority groups that deserve more support, also at European level. My third point serves as a warning against the yawning gap which can arise between top sport and smaller sports associations on the one hand and professional and amateur sport on the other. In both cases, one very much relies on the other.As to the question of whether sport should be dealt with at European level, I certainly believe it should. Therefore, this report does not mark the end of the game, quite the reverse. The role and impact sport has in society have become so enormous, and the entire sports scene is undergoing such change, that as far as the social debate is concerned, we are only just in the first heats, if at all. The European Parliament needs to ensure that it is not left on the sidelines in this debate, but plays an active part so that we can help decide the shape of the game.
Mr President, Commissioner, first and foremost, may I offer the rapporteur my warmest thanks for her outstanding work. Theconsiders promoting energy efficiency to be a key factor in the European Union’s energy policy. However, if the Union wishes to pursue a credible energy policy, then the time will come when the Commission and Council will, at last, have to draw conclusions from the previous SAVE programmes. This is a necessary prerequisite for the third SAVE programme, which has a great deal to offer, being able to achieve the desired effect.The liberalisation of the energy markets is currently in full swing, resulting in considerable price reductions. According to the economic principles that normally apply, offering energy at lower prices is diametrically opposed to the call for consumption to be reduced. Energy-saving measures risk fading away against such a background. That is why it falls to us to adopt the SAVE programme so that the liberalisation of the energy markets can go hand in hand with increased energy efficiency within the European Union.It will only be possible to secure the effectiveness of the SAVE programme if adequate publicity is given to the initiative and there is substantial follow-up to the SAVE III programme projects and activities which are to be financed. This can best be achieved by setting concrete objectives. That is why the Liberals will give their full support to amendments 2 and 5 which aim to increase the energy efficiency of the final demand by 1.5 extra percentage points per year. If we want to achieve our goals, then we really do need to have the courage to set high standards.Ladies and gentlemen, the reference to renewable energy sources, on the other hand, appears to me to be inopportune. It can only cause confusion with the ALTENER programme. In any case, to my mind, the best thing to do as regards renewable energy sources would be to enter into a preparatory and searching debate about access to the electricity grid.I am convinced that governments have an important role to play when it comes to leading by example in matters relating to rational energy consumption. This position is in stark contrast to the observation that, equally, government buildings could be described for the most part as archetypal wasters of energy. Citizens that have cause to enter government buildings ought to be able to see that saving energy is a concern to which the government gives priority. It would thus be a good idea to designate a Mr or Mrs Energy whose specific task would be to strictly monitor energy consumption in government buildings. Let us lead by example ourselves in this respect and start by designating a Mr or Mrs Energy in the European Parliament in both Brussels and Strasbourg. Simple measures are usually far more effective than long-winded programmes.
Madam President, the economic unification of Europe is a great adventure, but fortunately we have fifteen Ministers of Finance who keep a close watch on each other in Ecofin. Although we cannot be absolutely sure of that, of course, since meetings are held behind closed doors and sometimes also behind a smokescreen. Only very exceptionally, when things are really getting out of hand in one country, does Ecofin open its doors, does the smokescreen lift and does the colleague concerned get a public reprimand. This week, Ireland became the first country to suffer this fate. Are things going so badly with the Irish economy then? Can we really not trust the Irish? Not at all. On the contrary, Ireland is doing well, as has already been mentioned by many speakers. For five years Ireland has enjoyed an average growth of 5%, with unemployment down from over 16% to scarcely 4% and a budget surplus of over 4.5%. Admittedly there is a threat of the economy overheating and there is a risk of inflation, and that was not within the framework of the agreements made by the ministers themselves. But all in all it is not strange that the Irish should feel harshly treated. However, much greater risks lie in wait. The possible next Prime Minister of Italy, Silvio Berlusconi, has announced that he wishes to lower taxation despite a budget deficit and despite a ratio of public debt and gross national product that is more than three times the size of Ireland’s. What we wonder is whether the Council of Ministers will administer a public reprimand here too. Commissioner Solbes Mira, though we have doubts about the necessity of taking Ireland to task, in the latter case you can count on our support.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, following our appeal for a improved distribution of European film, we are now turning to the legal aspects we could employ to promote it. Mr Vander Taelen has again acquitted himself outstandingly of his task of commenting on the Commission communication, for which I thank him warmly.In the Netherlands, we stimulate investments in film production by means of fiscal measures for the limited partnerships that invest in film production. I welcome this mainly because the exemption clause for culture of Article 87(3) of the Treaty establishing the European Community allows for this. Yet, this is not sufficient.I should like to make two points. The EIB and the EIF can make an important financial contribution, especially where European film production is concerned, that involves production measures from different Member States. I would call into question whether we should go so far as to involve the EIB in the purchase of digital projection equipment for cinemas, as proposed by Mr Vander Taelen. My group fears that this would open the floodgates to arbitrariness and competitive distortion.Secondly, I should like to remind you that as long as we do not know what the public want, we cannot adopt a targeted promotion policy for the European film. It is therefore essential for research to be done into the motives of the film-going public regarding their film choices. In addition, it is of crucial importance for young people to be involved in European film too. Cinematographic training and e-learning are the appropriate ways of familiarising them with our film production and of teaching them to appreciate these.The exciting initiative to set up a pan-European children’s channel in order to broadcast the better European children’s films on a Europe-wide scale receives my warm consideration, and it is an excellent instrument to achieve this. In this way, the European citizen is made aware of our extremely diverse European culture from a very young age, as it is expressed, inter alia, in the European film, and we need to duly commit to this.IN THE CHAIR: MR COLOM I NAVALVice-President
In order to achieve world peace, it is essential for people of different creeds and races to respect each other and live together in peace. This is not the case in an increasing number of countries in the world, and that is an extremely worrying trend. Unfortunately, Nigeria is an alarming case in point. Precious little is left of the hopes which the democratically elected president had raised as successor of the corrupt military regime. Ethnic and religious feuds are now the order of the day across the country. Not a month goes by without blood being shed. The number of casualties is running into the hundreds and the situation is getting worse, not better. In that light, the balance sheet for  October is shocking. There was fighting between Muslims and Christians in Jos and disturbances in Kano where, moreover, there has been a cholera outbreak. The government army carried out ethnic atrocities and massacres in the Middle Belt. The government itself was shrouded in silence. Only after two weeks did President Obasanjo announce that a special committee would investigate the murders. The billion-dollar question is whether the president is actually up to the task of running this country which is extremely difficult to govern. Apparently, his position is not strong enough in order to keep the country united and allow the different nations to live together peacefully. It is frightening. Just now when we are nearly free of the Taliban, we are lumbered with regions such as the north of Nigeria, where the shari’ah is introduced. Autonomy for those regions should not go as far as observing their own rules that are diametrically opposed to national legislation and that suppress the population and women, in particular. To sentence a pregnant woman to capital punishment for having intercourse before marriage is barbaric. My question to the Commission is: What can the European Union do? In any event, the dialogue with Nigeria will need to be intensified. However, Europe’s hands are tied if the president and the government themselves lack the courage to act and to do everything in their power to allow the Nigerians to live together in peace.
Chairman, as indicated last night, the question of a rapid implementation of the EU top level domain was part and parcel of the compromise which was reached between the three institutions. We heard last night the statement by Commissioner Liikanen, which was part of this package. There is still outstanding the statement by the Council, which I think the Presidency has received, so I would be grateful if you could read out to the House the statement from the Council.
Mr President, I too appreciate greatly that the Greek Presidency has taken an enlightened approach to facilitating legal migration and integration, not just fighting illegal immigration. In an important presidency conference on the theme in Athens and in securing agreement on the family-reunion and long-term-residents directives you have gone some way to rebalance the EU agenda which has been much too focused until now on control and rejection.The EU's role in offering refugees protection has been under assault from some governments, notably the UK. I am glad that Thessaloniki rejected the preposterous suggestion that all EU asylum seekers should be driven back towards the Third World or EU fringe countries. The prospect of vast detention camps, raising the spectre of concentration camps, was rightly a step too far for some Member States. We need to get order in our asylum systems with a common EU system that does not shift responsibility but shares it. This would end the damaging rotation whereby first one country then another sees its numbers peak.We can only have a true partnership on migration with third countries if we offer their people adequate alternative opportunities, especially in agriculture. The CAP with its export subsidies and import protection is a gross barrier to trade justice. You have made some reform progress but not enough.My colleague Mr Watson rightly deplored the manner and content of the EU-US legal cooperation and extradition agreements. I agree with him. However, I welcome that the summit issued a clarion call of strong support for the International Criminal Court. The EU must stand up to the outrageous US bullying to undermine the court.Finally, the accession signing ceremony took place at the foot of the Acropolis where the new Parthenon museum is also located. I represent London where the British Museum is located, but I take a rather softer line than its director on the so-called Elgin Marbles and I hope some arrangement for transfer, even if only a loan, can be reached before next year's Olympics.(Applause)
Mr President, I would firstly welcome the policy of good neighbourly relations proposed by the European Commission and the report which will be discussed this afternoon, as a basic instrument for Euro-Mediterranean cooperation. I would also welcome the initiative to turn the Euro-Mediterranean Forum into a parliamentary assembly.Please allow me, Mr President, to refer specifically to the relations which should be established or improved with a State of the southern Mediterranean. I am referring to Libya, where I recently had the opportunity to chair a delegation from my parliamentary group.The United Nations Security Council's sanctions on Libya were lifted in September and work is ongoing on resolving the issues relating to the compensation for the UTA aircraft and the attack on the La Belle discotheque in Berlin in 1989. Libya is present as an observer in the Barcelona Mediterranean process and has not been integrated into it.As the Prime Minister, Mohamed Ghanem, said, Libya is taking the route of progressive privatisation of its economy and putting an end to state control. It is also prepared to increase its fight against illegal immigration, which is taking place throughout the length of its 2 000-km Mediterranean coast.In any event, it will be difficult for the fight against illegal immigration to be carried out if there is no effective cooperation with the States of the European Union and in this regard, we believe that the European Union must reconsider its relations with Libya. This cannot naturally take place without demanding, furthermore, respect for human rights, the abolition of the death penalty and also the abolition of amputations, which are practices which still exist in that country, at least in a legal sense.
Mr President, when, on 9 November 1989, we stood in front of our television sets and saw people, intoxicated by the spirit of democracy, hurling themselves over the Berlin Wall, we all felt the pulse of history. The very same night saw the beginning of the enlargement process, or the reunification of Europe, as the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party prefers to call it.We now stand on the threshold of creating a unified Europe, an EU for the whole continent. It is, of course, nothing less than an historic sensation.Now, however, we must move on a stage from merely engaging in rhetoric, whereupon it becomes a question of hard facts: money, agriculture and ancient border conflicts. Who said that it would be simple? Who believed that it would not cost anything? Who believed that we should not have to make sacrifices? Certainly, enlargement has a price, but it is worth it.Obviously, there are still a lot of problems to be solved, but we must not drown in details. 2002 is an incredibly important year for enlargement, but it is also a year with elections in six Member States and three candidate countries. The European issues will become important, but there is a very great risk of domestic political considerations overshadowing enlargement and the European issues. That is why vigorous European leadership and action by the Commission is required to force the pace during these crucial months. 2002 must not be a lost year. Enlargement must not be delayed.
deputising for the author. – Madam President, I am speaking on behalf of our chairman, Mr Brok, of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy. It is imperative that we think seriously about how to foster and strengthen the transatlantic relationship today. That is the thrust of our questions to the Council and the Commission: the development of the transatlantic partnership.It is our view that our shortcomings in common security and defence policy have been ruthlessly exposed by the Iraq conflict and that, in consequence, has badly damaged the transatlantic partnership.We believe that intergovernmental action still has the upper hand, and that is at the expense of the méthode communautaire in the transatlantic relationship. Joint structures which we could develop with institutions in Brussels, perhaps under the European Convention, will assist in greater coordination. But unless the Member States demonstrate a political will to pursue joint action, the development of the common defence and security policy in the context of the transatlantic alliance will not have the force that it both demands and deserves.As President Bush said earlier this week in Poland, the common values that underpin that transatlantic relationship are the common foreign policy element that can bring the European Union together with the USA. However, we cannot afford to behave in an erratic, inconsequential and fragmented manner. The USA is such a strong partner that if the European Union cannot speak with one voice – if not a common voice, perhaps a single voice, but at least a coordinated voice – then we will continue to fall behind in the transatlantic partnership. The European Union in this context is facing its most serious crisis of the last decade.The question today, which we look to the Commissioner and to the Council of Ministers to answer, is whether or not we can return to a real partnership with the USA. Can we give that partnership the new dynamism that the Committee on Foreign Affairs believes it demands and deserves, and can we be a full partner of the USA, or must we always feel that we are falling behind? We see that there is potential for a dramatic renewal of the transatlantic alliance, and here the partnership between the EU and the USA plays the most fundamental role.Of course, we see a stronger Europe as a condition for the very survival of Nato. It is not just the European Union that has been damaged by the conflict in Iraq and by the outfall of that conflict; Nato and the United Nations have also been seriously damaged. Most Member States of the European Union are an integral part of Nato, and even those who are not still believe that Nato is the fundamental guarantee for European Atlantic stability. We, therefore, seek reassurance this afternoon that the Council of Ministers and the Commission share our view on this and that they too feel that a stronger Europe will mean a stronger Nato. Can we from the European Union – those of us who are members and non-members – strengthen the Nato-Euro-Atlantic Alliance, since it is still a fundamental guarantee for European stability? We therefore seek to discuss what purpose the Atlantic Alliance now serves, how the Atlantic Alliance should be structured and what means should be placed at its disposal. Indeed, Nato itself needs reform, in particular with regard to military restructuring.We have had many discussions lately in the context of the common security and defence policy, including with the Commissioner himself last night in the Western European Union-European Parliament joint dialogue on military restructuring, focusing in particular on full cooperation between EU Member States and our heavy investments in the modern technologies. But how can we achieve that most effectively within the Nato context, and perhaps in a less costly way? Institutional reform of Nato is also something we see as imperative.Thus, we seek a coherent performance for the European Union both at home and abroad, based on consistent strategic thought and action. We look forward to a full debate this afternoon to enable us to kick-start, with the real dimension it deserves, a proper transatlantic relationship in the post-Iraq context.
Mr President, any medicine can be dangerous. If we need any reminder of that, we need only look at the thousands who die each year from taking authorised prescription medicines. By comparison, the risks posed by traditional herbal remedies are minimal. So let us keep a sense of proportion and make sure we do not throw the baby out with the bath water.Nobody should object to rules intended to safeguard health and to ensure that the consumer can make informed decisions. However, excessively restrictive application of regulations may threaten the future of some producers and specialist suppliers such as health food shops, possibly encouraging consumers to buy from unregulated internet suppliers. I therefore ask the Commission to be careful in its application of these regulations and to take account of these genuine concerns. In particular, I ask the House that if a herbal medicine has been used anywhere in the world for more than 30 years and there was clear evidence that its normal use is safe, then we should not deny it to the people we represent. We must not be so arrogant as to imply that Europe has nothing to learn from others.
Mr President, if I may, I wanted to highlight the exceptional nature of Mr Bourlanges’ report, which comes at just the right time, given the development of the Convention. The Convention has been bled almost dry by a virtual IGC with the arrival of numerous Foreign Affairs ministers. Thanks to Mr Bourlanges’ report, it is the European Parliament that is restoring to the Convention its strength with the absolutely essential elements of clarity and a sense of perspective. Clear legislation, because if we are all meant to be aware of the law, the legal categories must be perfectly clear, and a sense of perspective, because it is always important clearly to distinguish between constitutional data and actual policies. Mr Bourlanges’ report will contribute significantly to this. In fact, we get the feeling that this is less a report than the framework for a Bourlanges Constitution.
Mr President, 1999 already seems ages ago. That was the year that the agreements we know well – indeed, with which we are all too familiar – were reached in Tampere on the new European asylum and migration policy to be set up and a deadline was even attached to that, 5 years. Now we are in 2003, and not much has happened. I think that as far as that is concerned I am rather less enthusiastic about the outcomes of the Seville Summit, as will also be clear from our support for the position of our rapporteur Baroness Ludford.What I say is not entirely true, of course, because actually a lot has happened, only not in the dusty chambers of the Council. Since 1999, roughly 700 000 legal migrants a year have come to the European Union to work. And in those same four years around two million illegals have entered Europe. Of course that was not the intention, but you cannot say that Europe is full, even though the feeling has certainly arisen in some Member States that immigration is responsible for serious social tension and that the sharing of responsibilities between the Member States has not been at all fair. That is one of the reasons for adopting a European approach.In my country, the Netherlands, immigration for work has doubled since 1998 but against this stream of migrants we are dealing with a Europe that is getting older and older. In the Netherlands 20% of the population will be over 65 within 20 years, in Germany a similar figure has already been reached and what we call the ‘grey wave’ means that by 2050 there will be 80 pensioners for every 100 working people. At the moment there are 40 for every 100. It is not hard to imagine the effects this will have on the welfare state and pensions.It strikes me that the Council has been ignoring the long view. Recent years tell the story of how it has continued to look anxiously at how things are going and taken decisions on an ad hoc basis. We need to get real; now is the time to act. Immigration, of whatever kind, and the ageing of the population pay no attention to the passing of time; they just carry on unabated. There is no solution to be found in either a Fortress Europe or a rejuvenating elixir. My proposal to the Council is that we take a decision on European immigration policy during the Greek Presidency and stop pussyfooting around.Today Parliament voted on a directive on the entry and residence of citizens of third countries who want to enter the European Union to work. If you, the Council, really want to mean something to the citizens of Europe, vote for this directive. That would demonstrate foresight and with that initiative towards a sort of blue card we could start to regulate labour migration more effectively to the benefit of both groups, the migrants themselves and the countries that receive them. I ask the Council not to avoid that decision now and to remember that those who really want to get over that high fence into Europe come with all the social tensions associated with that and so it is sensible to create a gateway so that their entry is regulated.
Owing to D66 [Dutch Democrats ‘66], the Oostlander report on drugs trafficking has been amended in such a way that its scope is now restricted to extensive, cross-border and organised drugs trafficking. The Dutch soft drugs policy is kept out of the firing line as a result.Despite this, D66 has abstained from the final vote on the report. The reason for this is that Amendments Nos 5 and 14 have been adopted by Parliament. These amendments require the Member States to plough the proceeds from the goods seized in the course of combating drugs back into rehabilitation programmes for drugs users. However benevolent this goal may be, it is fundamentally wrong in our view to make rehabilitation programmes financially dependent on the results of fighting crime. We therefore continue to prefer the way in which things are done in the Netherlands, where fines and proceeds from seizures are added to the general resources and where rehabilitation programmes are funded from the general resources.These amendments contravene the principle of subsidiarity. Despite the major improvements, we therefore had no choice but to refuse to back the report.- Jensen report (A5-0111-2002)Fatuzzo. – (IT) Mr President, I was in Bergamo, sitting in a café with some young university students. ‘I need a job,’ one of them said to me, ‘but I don’t know how to find work. It is very difficult. I would especially like to work in another State of the European Union.’ ‘Listen,’ I replied, ‘we are going to vote on a document by Mrs Anne Elisabet Jensen on Community incentive measures in the field of employment.’ I must congratulate Mrs Jensen – I voted for her report – on succeeding in increasing expenditure from EUR 50 million to EUR 55 million in conciliation to make it easier for young people to find work. I hope that, with a European Internet service, people looking for a job will be able to see immediately where there is work available anywhere in the European Union.
Mr President, it is a pleasure to welcome the two outstanding reports put forward by Mr Morillon, and I turn first to the report which he has prepared on Customs Union to say how much we welcome that report in which we must remind Turkey that she too has to play her part. The European Union has made major efforts over a number of years to ensure this Customs Union is successful, and Turkey herself must now ensure that she fulfils the role that she is called upon to play.I also support what is perhaps the more contentious report. It is a welcome report on economic and social development in Turkey and was supported in the Committee for Foreign Affairs this week. Here the joint forum has to be of major importance, and again both sides must fulfil their role. We are, of course, confident that we will do so. We remain confident that Turkey will also.In this period of time before Helsinki, it is vital that we look too at the rule of law, human rights, respect for minorities, protection and recognition of their cultural identity and support for measures seeking to abolish capital punishment, one of the amendments that came before our committee to the Morillon report this week.We have, of course, the unhappy fact of one death penalty upheld in Turkey at this very moment. But I believe there is good news that we can focus on even in that tragic situation where the possibility of a citizen losing his life at the hands of the State is upheld by the Court of Appeal. May I remind my colleagues here today that Turkey has not used the death penalty in practice since 1984. There has been an effective moratorium in place since then with the result that 53 people who were defined as subject to what we would call cruel and inhuman punishment, have had their cases put on one side.At the moment the Minister for the European Council and Human Rights, is reported in today's issue of Milliyet, the daily paper, as being firmly against capital punishment. There is a new law coming to the Turkish Parliament in the year 2000, put forward by academics, in which for the first time ever the proposed criminal justice bill does not contain the death penalty. Let us hope and believe that in this year 2000, Turkey's commitment to our millennium year globally will be the abolition of the death penalty once and for all through the democratic parliamentary process.
Mr President, I am pleased we are now one step closer to achieving noise restriction in Europe. I should like to single out four points of significance. First of all, it is valuable to establish one basis for applying a system of noise charges which will prompt airlines to use quieter aircraft. In our view, the proceeds should be ploughed back into infrastructural changes to restrict noise nuisance. The introduction of one system would give the currently ambiguous system a dose of clarity.Secondly, it is not compulsory to introduce this system at all airports, which is useful, since some airports may have natural noise barriers that could be exploited economically.Thirdly, certification in accordance with the ICAO standard should be introduced. It is important, to my mind, not to start using other standards, but it is certainly worth investigating whether this could be developed in future and it is useful to translate the actual noise pollution as experienced by the public into a noise classification. Working with noise classifications is very complex as it is. As Mr Blokland has already pointed out, there are always external effects intruding. In future, I would like to see this further investigated, and this should then also be possible to implement and measure, but not now.My final point concerns the ratio, in respect of which we, as the  Group, adopt a different position. In our view, the ratio of 1 in 20 on top of the other systems and on top of the landing rights already has sufficient impact on pricing and on the challenge on the part of airlines and industries to implement the tariffs. A good balance has been struck, in our view. Let us therefore introduce it.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, as the Nicaraguan writer Sergio Ramírez has pointed out, the political map of Latin America can be interpreted today by means of some diverse and highly contrasting landmarks.One of these could be the ‘tequila effect’ which has irradiated from Mexico since the last presidential elections, a genuine example of civic pride which, we trust, will have beneficial consequences to help shape the new political map of the United Mexican States. There we hope to see a separation of powers and guarantees that governments will alternate in power, and we are sure that the necessary interrelationship between economic modernisation and political modernisation will increasingly prosper.Of course Mexico is a country of light and shade, like any country in the European Union. That is why I noticed the excessively critical tone used by the rapporteur of this report in her explanatory statement regarding the social and economic situation in this Latin American republic.I believe we should be careful in our statements and I am surprised by the rapporteur’s doubts on questions of Mexican constitutional competences when dealing with trade in services.With regard to investments, I do not think the assessments made are appropriate, since the degree of internationalisation of the Mexican economy in recent years has been remarkable, to the point where Mexico is the country that has most used the Community financial instrument known as the ECIP. This is clearly reflected in the growth in investment by foreign companies and in the free trade agreements, both the one signed with the United States and Canada and the recent one with the European Union.In the latter case, Mexico has made a strategic effort to diversify its relations, which had focused so much on the United States, and this will moreover provide European goods with tariff treatment similar to that given to US goods, especially with regard to industrial products. We shall obviously be voting in favour.
Mr President, if you will allow me, I would like to explain why I have abstained in the vote on the resolution regarding the Middle East. I believe that in delicate matters such as these, preference should be given to a diplomatic stance and, as far as the specific content of Paragraph 4 is concerned, it does not comply with the standards for a balanced resolution, in my view. Especially with regard to the committee of inquiry, I would like to stress the fact that it should be an internationally constituted committee of enquiry and that its competences must be clearly delineated.IN THE CHAIR: MR MARINHOVice-PresidentPresident. – The next item is the vote on topical and urgent issues of major importance (Rule 50).(2)***
Mr President, Commission, ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of all to say a word of thanks to all my fellow Members of this House, and particularly the shadow rapporteurs, with whom I have worked closely in order to pilot the report on sales promotion into the plenary. It has been a long journey with many obstacles along the way, which started in 1996 with the first publication of the Green Paper, followed by the Commission's follow-up communication in 1998. Further to extensive consultation, the Commission introduced a pragmatic and clearly defined proposal in October 2001, for which I was appointed rapporteur in November 2001.In the field of sales promotions, this draft regulation aims to eliminate obsolete measures and major discrepancies in the relevant legislation of the fifteen Member States. These many discrepancies prevent particularly small and medium-size enterprises from breaking through on the various European markets. It goes without saying that when enterprises cannot communicate across their borders, they cannot do any business at international level. In addition, sales promotion has many facets and can be tailored to different circumstances. It can be used to launch innovative products onto the market, to promote customer relations, to stimulate short-term campaigns by giving them a competitive edge, to react promptly to falling sales figures and as a means of effective stock management.Furthermore, this regulation will also put the consumer in a considerably stronger position. Not only will consumers receive far more information, but they will also, via the development of the internal market, be able to take full advantage of better pricing. After all, a bigger internal market increases competition, which leads to lower prices, partly brought about by the euro.This is why I consider this proposal to be a very important initiative for the internal market's future development. It is also a first step towards translating the fine words spoken at the Lisbon Summit into action. After all, nobody can deny that two years after this much-debated summit, disappointingly little progress has been made. Did Europe not want to become the most competitive knowledge-based economy? I believe that the time has come to make another step in the right direction with a regulation of this kind on sales promotion.Its far-reaching consequences and the many interests involved have meant that this proposal has spawned quite a reaction, to which the Commissioner referred earlier. I should like to underline the key challenges.As far as the legal basis is concerned, I have always taken the view that a regulation, thanks to the swifter entry into force and its direct applicability, is a much more effective legal instrument than a directive.The issue of sale below cost is being temporarily deferred because the positions in the different Member States vary too widely. I have tabled a compromise amendment on this, in which I ask the Commission to carry out a thorough investigation into the subject. The reason for tabling such an amendment is that I do not want the liberalisation of sale below cost to have a detrimental effect on small and medium-size enterprises. I have therefore tabled an amendment with regard to the latter, which contains the explicit request to protect them.In this proposal, mutual recognition or – in other words – the principle of the country of origin, is of major importance. This principle is also the internal market's keystone. It simply means that Members have to recognise that they cannot apply their own national legislation to incoming promotions. This mutual recognition of each other's legislation is a flexible means of avoiding overregulation. In addition, it is already a commonly used form of legislation in our Community legislation. The television without frontiers directive and the e-commerce directive are two cases in point.Finally, I should like to comment on the stipulation of an age limit for children. I have always been in favour of the age of fourteen, unless specific products require other age limits. Following extensive bilateral consultation with fellow MEPs from the various committees, I have managed to resolve these challenges in a pragmatic manner. I am pleased with the outcome, even though I realise that further adjustments will need to be made in the course of further discussion on the motion for a resolution. I hope that Parliament has bowled the Council an important first ball, and I look forward to this debate with great interest.
Madam President, there is a certain air of depression here. I do not think that this accords at all with the good image we had of the conference on equality held in Finland under Finland’s Presidency and under the leadership of my party colleague, Eva Biaudet. What has happened to the good mood that was created then?It sounds, rather, as if, in the course of this discussion, we ought to use the image of a bicycle. The EU is like a bicycle which has to be kept moving all the time. If it is not moving, it does not go forwards. I have the feeling that this image could also be used for the work following the Beijing Conference. Not much has happened, and it is important that we should not be satisfied with the situation but instead establish goals for the future. What do we want to have achieved by the year 2005? What do we want our goal to be now? We are not satisfied with what has happened in our Member States. We are not satisfied with what has happened at EU level. We are not satisfied with what has happened within the UN. We must also infuse other UN organisations and other UN conferences with significantly more in the way of a perspective of equality. I was very pleased indeed that the applicant countries have also been invited to the conference which the Commissioner was talking about.I believe that we are also dissatisfied with how our own Parliament looks from the perspective of equality. Look, for example, at the numbers of Vice-Presidents and Presidents. The representation of women is not at all adequate.Where the applicant countries are concerned, there is an incredible amount to be done. Communism betrayed equality, and women in the applicant countries do not believe empty words about working towards equality. In many ways, the process has to be completely restarted in those countries. Poverty has especially affected women in the applicant countries. One frightening statistic we have heard is that, before the fall of communism, there were 13 million people in Eastern and Central Europe living below the poverty line. Today there are 120 million.
Mr President, firstly I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Haug, for her excellent report. The report under discussion concerns Parliament’s provisional position on the budget in the conciliation talks that are to be held. Just as Mr Wynn said, the problems really mainly concern Category 4: External Action, and the reconstruction of the Balkans.Last Spring the Commission proposed the so-called CARDS programme for the reconstruction of the Western Balkans. Its total value is EUR 5.5 billion. EUR 1.9 billion has already been found for the programme; of the remainder, EUR 1.4 billion would be found by the reallocation of Category 4 funds, and 1.8 billion by moving funds from the section of the budget dealing with agriculture. The sum to be reallocated is therefore approximately 5% of the total sum under Category 4, so that it may be technically possible, given there is sufficient political will. However, the use of agricultural expenditure for the reconstruction of Kosovo is not fair, as each EU citizen must play a part in the work and not just the farming community. In addition, the future needs of agriculture are hard to estimate, as the Agenda 2000 reforms are only just starting and the WTO talks are in their elementary stages.The Commission’s proposal for the CARDS programme is explicit and our group supports it. EU Member States have to bear the responsibility for the reconstruction of the Balkans, as most of them were keen supporters of the military action there, and many also took part in it. Unless the countries of Europe help th–e inhabitants of the Balkans in their reconstruction work, honourably and vigorously, then this could result in a deep feeling of resentment and bitterness that could last for generations. Military action is always an extreme measure, and somebody must always suffer the consequences.When the Interinstitutional Agreement between the Council and Parliament, which contained the financial perspectives for the years 2000 – 2006, was made, it was forecast that the reconstruction of Kosovo might call for ‘fresh’ resources. This is stated in point 3 of Mrs Haug’s report. The Council has, however, signalled that it will not adopt any amendment to the financial perspectives – not even between categories. The CARDS programme is so huge that it is impossible to adapt it to the present financial perspectives. There are two alternatives ahead: to fund just part of the programme, or table an amendment to the financial perspectives.The Council is responsible for the reconstruction of the Balkans. If it merely promises money, but is not prepared to give it, its credibility as a global player shrinks. In that case Parliament will have to act within the framework of the financial perspectives, which will mean severe cutbacks in the CARDS programme.
Mr President, I too should like to express my condolences in respect of the victims of the aircraft accident in Egypt. People are concerned; in my region, too, there is an airport that apparently has been, or is being, used by this airline company, so it is obvious that we need to know whether the assessment of all aircraft that fly in the EU is positive or not. We have Mrs Maes’ report on third-country aircraft, in which, fortunately, we demand such things as our own inspections, the possibility of keeping aircraft on the ground and of exchanging information between Member States. We have now reached the conciliation stage, and I hope that we can make use of this conciliation to tighten things up to some extent.One of the questions that arose after the accident in Egypt is: what do we tell the public, what is intended for the public domain? It is clear that the Council has toned down the questions that Parliament had on that score. I would like to ask the Council, in the light of recent events, to revisit this issue. It is evident that we do not throw just any piece of information into the public domain, for then it will lead a life of its own. If, however, an airline company is banned from a country, surely people are entitled to know this, so that they can avoid using this airline in future. I think that we should have clear rules in this respect.I have read that a law is to be adopted in France according to which tour operators are to be required to tell customers which company will be used for the trip, so that people know with whom they are flying. I think that passengers have a right to this, and if there were to be an imputation in respect of a company, then customers can establish that link themselves. Why could that not become EU law?I have also read that the American Federal Aviation Administration is examining the quality of inspections in third countries, or what Mr Simpson termed the role of the flag state. This reminds me of safety in shipping. Do we actually have control over the quality of the flag state? Could we not do what the Americans are doing? I think that the quality offered by ICAO is sound, but we should apply our own systems and do as the Americans are doing. It is, in my view, not a bad idea for us as Europeans to go and have a look over there whether the quality standards are being respected.Finally, I have read that there are quite a few differences between national inspections, and that one country is somewhat stricter than the other, or at least makes assessments on a different basis. I should like to see flight bans established everywhere on the same basis – after all, one flight ban can be too strict, while another not strict enough. In any case, we now have a European Aviation Safety Agency, and it might be useful if an independent audit were to be carried out on the different ways in which Member States assess the safety of aircraft.I hope – Commissioner, Mr President, Mrs Maes and other Members who were involved in this conciliation – that we can use the conciliation procedure relating to your report in order to ensure that the points which Parliament pressed home in the light of recent events – and unfortunately, our decision-making is often, if not too often, disaster-driven – will be emphasised. Mrs Maes, I hope that you, together with the Members of this House, will be able to salvage a few things yet.
Madam President, I want to put a question on the issue of our order of business, so I am not expressing a view for or against. This is the question – both parliamentary and political – but for a different reason, to the President of the Socialist Group. If the Commission is setting a precedent and, more to the point, if the Council sets a precedent this week, should we not be told, at the earliest date and when the House is as full as possible, of the precedent and the response of the House.Is it really ideal, if we are setting precedents, that the European Parliament should contemplate a debate at 5.30 p.m. on a Thursday, which if it is anything like the 5.30 p.m. debate I attended on the Thursday of the January part-session, is not to be recommended as a time for setting precedents.So, Madam President, can we invite the Commission and indeed the Council to express themselves in this House earlier in the week, so that we can treat this properly? My fear is that Thursday evening is not the optimum time to try to do it.
I think it is appropriate, in this explanation of vote, to set on record the clear progress made in the development of the European rail network following the recent decision at the Italo-French summit in Turin to approve construction of the Turin-Lyons rail tunnel and the resulting new high-speed railway line. This decision finally gives the go-ahead for a project which is essential to the goal of improving the rail system and transferring freight traffic from road to rail through the Alps.As I have already told this Chamber, while the Swiss Lotschberg-Simplon and St. Gotthard project is making progress, the Turin-Lyons project suffered considerable delays at the planning stage; however, we now have a coherent sense of purpose for this century through the Trans-European Transport Network. I must add that the decision by Italy and France, fully supported by the European Commission, is in line with the transport protocol of the Alpine Convention. Moreover, it is encouraging that, just last January, the Commission, after years of showing no interest in the Alpine Convention, requested the Council to authorise it to sign the protocol, calling for this important document to be ratified soon. As it stands, the project, which favours the relaunch of rail in the Alpine region to reverse the increase of freight traffic on roads decisively, will be appropriately supplemented by the development of new rail routes. In this respect, the Commission is already aware of my hope that the Aosta-Martigny rail route will finally become part of the trans-Europe network to be established in the coming years.I would like to conclude by expressing my satisfaction at the decision, also adopted in Turin, to reopen the Mount Blanc road tunnel after the summer. I feel that, in setting limits on the number of lorries which can use the tunnel, the French and Italian authorities have exercised good sense. I call upon the Commission to facilitate the application of this decision to reduce numbers. This must be a radical, well-regulated operation.- Wieland report (A5-0012/2001)
Mr President, I am pleased that we are debating this resolution today even though I would have preferred the  resolution to have been the one we are debating. India and Pakistan have carried on this conflict for over fifty years now. There were UN resolutions that called for a plebiscite for the people of Kashmir all that time ago, and still nothing has happened. It is even more important now that we find a solution, especially as both India and Pakistan are nuclear powers. If there is another war across that border, I believe it could turn into a nuclear war, and that will be a problem not only for India and Pakistan and the people of Kashmir but for all of us. That is why I hope India and Pakistan will come to the negotiating table, together with the people of Kashmir. I would like to see either the European Union or the USA acting as an honest broker, as a mediator, to try to find an end to this dispute.But whatever happens, the human rights abuses must stop. We have daily reports of rapes, murder, torture, and a lot of people say, “Oh, this is an exaggeration”. But when I was in Azad Kashmir and I went to one of the refugee camps a few years ago I was very moved by the first-hand accounts I heard. I was even more moved when I went into a tent where the women and children were. I went up to one woman and although we could not speak each other’s languages we stood there and hugged each other. That woman was sobbing her heart out. I could almost touch the pain, really feel the pain of that woman. She was not acting it, she was not pretending it – nobody goes to a refugee camp for fun. They were there because they had been tortured, they had been mistreated and they were escaping. That was not an isolated incident, and it is still happening today. We must find a solution. They must come to the negotiating table.
Mr President, the main question that came to the fore during today's debate was to what extent the candidate countries are ready for accession. We regret that the question as to whether the European Union is ready for it has not been addressed, or, if at all, only in passing. In the euphoria of the moment, we should not be blind to the various problem areas. I think that the main problem remains the funding of enlargement and, inherently linked to this, the reform of agricultural policy. I still regret that the necessary reform has been postponed to 2007. I also regret that it will be only in 2013 that farmers in the new Member States will receive the same treatment as do those in the present European Union. Current European agricultural policy, linking subsidy to production, is indefensible and unacceptable. It creates surpluses, keeps food prices high, damages the environment and is also detrimental to farmers in the developing world.I think that we as Parliament should therefore continue to support Commissioner Fischler in his endeavours to achieve swift and thorough reforms in agricultural policy, with the subsidies being redirected to rural development and to the new Member States. We must avoid a two-speed Europe at all costs, with one speed for the rich countries of the current EU, which cling onto their privileges like grim death, and another for the poor countries among the new Member States which have the same duties but not, unfortunately, the same rights.
Madam President, I would first like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work. The additional budget under discussion contains two central issues: budgeting last year’s surplus and the new system for own resources. The new system for own resources was already in this year’s budget in December but it had to be removed because some Member States had not ratified it. Bringing the income side of the budget up to date in the middle of the year, despite agreement on the matter having been reached as early as two and a half years previously, is poor management.The 40% reduction in the United Kingdom’s contribution will be retained in the system of own resources. It is high time that this reduction was dispensed with, for example when drawing up the next financial perspectives because there is little basis for it. For example a small Member State like Finland has to finance this reduction with a sum corresponding to the annual running costs of an average-sized university.The most depressing part of this year’s additional budget is the budgeting of last year’s surplus. Unused appropriations already amount to approximately EUR 18 billion, or 20% of the entire budget. This indicates incredibly poor management. This particularly concerns the Structural Funds in which under-utilisation stands at EUR 10.5 billion. This seriously threatens the regional and structural policy of the whole EU.Madam President, the Council’s aim to weaken the status of Parliament as a budgetary authority in conjunction with the updating of the Financial Regulation has overshadowed discussion of the additional budget. It tried to transfer powers belonging to Parliament to itself. Fortunately, Parliament’s firm stand forced the Council to realise the facts and at the moment the updating of the regulation is progressing with better mutual understanding. Therefore, as a gesture of goodwill and to create a good atmosphere for cooperation, the Committee on Budgets is ready to relinquish its justified amendments which it made in the first reading of the additional budget and to accept the proposal of the Council as it stands. My group supports this position.
Madam President, we in Parliament are rightly particularly attentive to areas where ethnic tensions lead to conflict and attempts to overthrow democracy and the rule of law. In both Fiji and the Solomon Islands democratic government and law and order have been undermined. In Fiji the aim must be to restore the legitimate government elected on the basis of the 1997 multi-racial constitution, which was approved by both ethnic groups – Indo-Fijians and indigenous Fijians. Violence against property and people must cease and the hostages released.The interim civilian administration installed in Fiji does not meet the constitutional or democratic tests. We therefore call on the Commission to begin with determination the procedures to suspend development cooperation with Fiji. The beleaguered inhabitants of Fiji are looking to the European Union, which they see as the beacon of democracy and racial equality, to come to their aid. We also warn the Solomon Islands that a suspension of aid may be needed there to restore democracy, peace and stability.
Mr President, my Group would like to welcome the annual legislative programme. However, we have some concerns about the process.I came to this procedure as a relatively new Member of this House. It was with some incredulity that I found myself faced with these various draft resolutions from each of the groups, all of them very much resembling shopping lists of differing lengths and ingredients. Indeed, to carry the metaphor further and using the English usage, if we were going to make a meal from these it would be rather long and rather indigestible.I understand that it has been the normal tradition to obediently produce these lists. Now, I am not particularly radical or revolutionary, but it seemed to my colleagues that this process lacked something, especially at a time when we are trying to reconnect Europe with its citizens, when we want them to be clear about what we are doing here.There has been much talk about concentrating on core tasks and of achieving better quality of European legislation rather than more quantity. All this sits rather uneasily with endless lists. With this in mind, we produced a one-page resolution highlighting key areas. However, this has not reached the compromise resolution, so we wish now to put down a clear marker for the future about how this process should be conducted. We should like to suggest that, since this is a very important process and moment in our legislative cycle, and to enable the Commission and Parliament to approach it in a constructive way, the annual state of the Union address could be combined with a resolution from Parliament on key political priorities and then go to the committees for more detailed debate. This would get away from the shopping-list approach and give more political focus. It would allow Parliament to participate fully in the process, not just by swapping shopping lists with you.It is because we want to give more purpose and prominence to this procedure that the  intends not to sign the current eight-page list – not because we object to the contents, but because we think this is in danger of becoming an annual ritual performance without substance and real meaning. What we would like to do is catch the imagination of Europe's citizens.
Mr President, it is appalling how women in many developing countries are still being treated. They often have to do the hard work, give birth to and bring up many children, and are scarcely remunerated for this.They have no, or poor, access to education. Women suffer heavily from domestic violence. Reproductive health care often leaves a great deal to be desired. Also politically speaking, women do not have a voice.Cultural, religious and socio-economic customs which are at odds with the humane and equal treatment of women must be broken down. To fight for this is not a form of neo-colonialism, it is a sine qua non of effective development.This is why the fight against structural injustice has to play a prominent role in European development policy across the board. It is very unfortunate that I am the only man to take the floor on this matter this evening. We men should not leave women to fight this battle alone. The situation is too appallingly unfair for this.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteurs, who have managed to produce excellent reports in just a short time. However, criticism has been voiced within my group over the timing of the preparatory work of the committee. The reports are late, and, in addition, they were very hastily discussed by the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism. A good opportunity to discuss the results, good practices and shortcomings of the earlier programmes was therefore lost.Our group is keen to stress the importance of cross-border activity under the INTERREG programme and especially cooperation focusing on areas outside the European Union. Such important areas include the Balkans and the Adriatic region, but, in my opinion, we should not ignore cooperation with Russia either. Our group would once again like to raise the issue of the practical monitoring of funds and emphasise the importance of better coordination of the INTERREG, TACIS, ISPA and PHARE programmes. This coordination is at present lacking, and the Commission has not as yet made any precise proposals to improve it. We here in Parliament are waiting for the Commission to give the committee a more detailed explanation of the issue as soon as possible.It is of decisive importance to get local business, organisations and other players involved in the practical implementation of programmes. Experience shows that projects of cooperation need better planning and closer monitoring and need to be generally more successful. Projects have often remained half-finished, and their efficiency has been drained by administration and bureaucracy. We also have to demand that our partners in cooperation be committed to projects and fulfil their share of the agreement.Our group is reviewing a few amendments that were rejected by the committee. I would like to mention here again the URBAN report, in which the rapporteur, in the explanatory statements, has dealt admirably with the issue of the minimum sum of EUR 500 per inhabitant as per the Commission’s guidelines. It will not work as an automatic target, but must be applied in the target area according to prevailing conditions. This is such an important matter for consideration that firm conclusions have to drawn.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, this is a good day to raise a series of Euro-Mediterranean considerations, since a series of cultural, social, religious and political events are taking place which cannot pass unnoticed by those of us, looking on from Europe, who wish the best for the countries bordering the Mediterranean which furthermore, throughout history, have lived alongside certain European countries.This debate is also appropriate because this Parliament’s delegation for relations with the Maghreb countries visited Morocco and Tunisia last week, with a full working agenda.It is true that the situation is different to the situation some years ago, since we can see certain slight improvements in specific areas such as human rights and in the economic field, despite certain difficulties. In general, we have seen a common desire on the part of these countries to associate themselves with their neighbours in the north who form part of the European Union, since they see us as their sole hope of solving the problems they are facing on a day-to-day basis. That is why the different European institutions, Parliament, the Commission and the Council, must make an effort so that these people in the Mediterranean area may improve their situation. To this end, we must carry out a decisive and courageous policy which will allow us to successfully confront the Euro-Mediterranean challenges which have arisen in this globalised world. The Mediterranean and its peoples need us. We cannot leave them to struggle alone.
Mr President, the European Union has many critics but few voices of protest are heard when the institution takes action to protect our air, our rivers, our seas and our land. Because people everywhere recognise that pollution knows no national boundaries and can only be tackled effectively by countries working together. To its great credit Europe has taken a lead in introducing legislation to protect the environment. But laws which are not enforced equally by all 15 Member States will be cynically ignored by those who seek financial gain at any cost and will generate a sense of injustice and eventually hostility in all those who play by the rules.None of us, of course, have any reason to feel superior. No country has a perfect record when it comes to enforcing environmental legislation. This report takes us a positive step forward and shows Parliament at its best as a defender of the public interest. It emphasises our commitment to protecting our environment and applying equal procedures in each Member State. It greatly strengthens the Commission’s well-meaning but frankly insubstantial recommendations for inspection procedures which could not guarantee that improvements will actually take place and it provides for a detailed programme of action to make sure that existing laws are properly enforced within a realistic but tight timetable.There are one or two sections in this report, as drafted, which I believe would benefit from some very minor amendments to tighten them up. I have tabled a couple and one of the delights about making a maiden speech in this House is that one has the feeling that those words might actually be studied for their merits rather than simply judged on their party political background. The real substance of this report and my concern is as raised by Mrs Jackson, that the Commission may not give its support to these proposals. I congratulate Mrs Jackson on the work she has undertaken. I believe strongly that this report should be given Parliament’s wholehearted support and a message should be sent to both the Commission and the Council that we are determined that these essential measures should not be diluted or weakened in any way.
Afghanistan, a country where, during the Taliban’s reign of terror, women were not allowed to leave their homes, were not allowed to work or receive education, is the most poignant example of a country where fundamentalists, backed by their delusions, oppressed women. However, on a smaller scale too, there are women across the world who are being oppressed, abused or discriminated against in the name of religion.In many Islamic countries, girls are genitally maimed, although this is not mentioned anywhere in the Koran. In fact, the Koran prohibits this practice. This is no longer religion, but fundamentalism.Some fellow MEPs labour under the misapprehension that I, along with other MEPs, denounce any religious interference in politics. This is incorrect. We welcome the fact that people are involved in European politics. This comes about via industry, environmental organisations and the unions. Needless to say, religions will also lobby for their interests and their ideals. The fact that churches defend their political agendas here among MEPs is a credit to our institution. I am therefore delighted with the Vatican’s attention to this report, as documented in the authoritative Spanish newspaper, El Pais, among others. As a first step towards an open dialogue with the Vatican, I should like to say the following in response to their criticism: we simply want women to be able to decide for themselves whether, and if so when, they want to bear children.The report also focuses on the difficult position of women in developing countries and of lesbians. These are real problems which would be solved far better if politicians were to join forces with churches. Cooperation always leads to better results. Our joint fight against capital punishment or poverty is a good case in point. Would it not be wonderful if, on the road to yet more cooperation, we could start an open dialogue with regard to the Vatican’s position on condoms? Last year, 2.6 million people died of AIDS in Africa. If the Vatican stops the ban on condoms, we might be able to rescue a percentage of these people.Let us therefore enter into this open dialogue so that we can together fight fundamentalism at some stage in future, on the understanding that each take up their own responsibilities. I should like to thank the rapporteur and the fellow MEPs with whom we have cooperated.
Mr President, Commissioner, the Commission has recently tabled a proposal for future reform of the fisheries policy and, in the light of this, the Commission’s report on monitoring the implementation of the common fisheries policy, which is the subject of my report, is a very important tool. We must draw upon all the experience garnered from the current fisheries policy so that the future fisheries policy can lead to some clear improvements. Such improvements are necessary, moreover, for there are far too many loopholes in the present fisheries policy. One of the most obvious examples is the MAGPs, which have neither permitted efficient monitoring of the number of fishing vessels, nor have secured either the necessary reduction in the fleet or efficient monitoring of the fleet’s real capacity. Certain Member States have neglected to comply with their obligations to inform the Commission of their vessels’ catches or have only provided such information on an occasional basis during the period covered by the Commission’s report.There are, unfortunately, very big differences between one Member State and another in the way in which the conditions are fulfilled, as well as in the way in which the requirements for reporting catches to the Commission are complied with. That is because many Member States are quite simply too slipshod about fulfilling their obligations under the common fisheries policy. That also applies to the submission of data, the implementation of common decisions and the use of adequate resources to ensure full compliance with the common fisheries policy. In order to ensure the implementation of a common fisheries policy, it is, quite simply, necessary to demand that the monitoring and enforcement system and the system of reporting be employed correctly in every respect in all the Member States. It is also necessary for other reasons, particularly in order to obtain fishermen’s support and respect for the policies decided upon. Fishermen must also be left in no doubt that these policies are being implemented equally in all the Member States.Responsibility for monitoring the application of Community legislation in accordance with Community principles naturally lies with the Member States. There is a lot to indicate that the Member States need rather more help in fulfilling this responsibility, and it is, in the last analysis, the Community which has overall responsibility for satisfactory implementation of the legislation. The Member States have established legal frameworks for control and have designated competent authorities within the traditions of their legal and administrative systems. Member States have also invested fisheries inspectors with legal powers of control and the power to initiate sanction procedures. Everything ought, in this way, really to be in order. The basis, in any case, is there as it should be, and the national authorities are in a position to enforce Community legislation. Unfortunately, we have to observe, on the basis of the Commission’s report, that there are far too many differences, and that naturally makes fishermen feel they are being treated unequally within the Community.My eye has also been caught by the observation in the Commission’s report to the effect that the fisheries inspectors are not well enough trained. Simply reading between the lines, I gather there are some fisheries inspectors who do not even know the difference between a herring and a sprat. If I am right in thinking that this is the case, it is certainly something to be got to grips with, especially in view of the fact that the training of inspectors is partly funded by the EU. It is, therefore, quite simply unacceptable that the Commission has seen fit to observe that there is a blatant lack of training and experience in how to conduct basic checks on compliance with applicable common rules. It is high time that we got the Member States to give a higher priority to their obligations. It is a question of increasing the efficiency of the way in which responsibility is exercised at national level, so that monitoring, inspection and surveillance are not – as is the case, for example, in one particular country – divided between seven authorities, meaning that no one has real responsibility. There must be efficient follow-up of infringements, and adequate resources must be set aside to ensure that the monitoring and inspection functions are in order. I have proposed to the Commission that a system of rewards be devised, for example in the form of extra quotas, for those Member States that comply with Community legislation. I have also, of course, proposed that tougher sanctions be imposed upon those countries that do not comply with what is required. Commissioner, I am completely convinced that the key to success where our fisheries are concerned is in the area of control.
Mr President, Mr President in Office of the Council, I wonder if there is any EU country that has declared itself prepared to give Amina Lawal protection against the possibility of the court case not going the way we wish it to. Has any country shown a readiness in the Council to make such a statement? If we are serious about wishing to protect her, we must press our countries to give her protection against this type of state persecution which is, de facto, exercised against many women.
Mr President, there is an error in Amendment No 1 in the Swedish text. The correct version states that the “increase” in the total EU quota is kept within the limits proposed by the Commission, but the Swedish text reads “reduction”.
Mr President, I was probably the first to hear about the terrorist attack this morning at 7.40, so I have known about it for a while now. The attack happened in Catalonia about three or four kilometres from my house and it appears that the situation is worsening since, even though ETA have already killed more than 800 people, they have committed yet another atrocity, even as we speak.No political objective justifies the use of violence. We can but express our wholehearted condemnation of terrorism and particularly at a time when the terrorists seem so intent on destroying us. We must therefore, once again, strongly reiterate our firm and cooperative position as the Commissioner said, in support of a strong democracy, given that terrorism constitutes a direct threat to our core values. We should like to express our solidarity with those who have been affected and also, in particular, our hope for peace.In the wake of the latest atrocity, the debate is especially difficult for this Member, and this is something I commented on to four of the five people that signed the declaration against terrorism in Spain. I pointed out to two of them that the signing of the declaration may prove difficult for some due to the content of one of the paragraphs, the second paragraph in fact. This paragraph rejects dialogue with any group that tolerates terrorism or that is involved in it. The reason I spoke to the authors of the text is that I think they need to find a formula on which everyone agrees. One might wonder why the second paragraph of the text as it stands is proving so difficult to sign. The reason is because it calls into question the culture of peace and the culture of dialogue. What is more, if we renounce dialogue the Northern Ireland peace process would not be possible, the Middle East peace process would not be possible and, the Member of the European Parliament, Mr John Hume, would not have been awarded the Nobel Peace Prize and I think it is important his work receives recognition.If ETA does not give up its weapons, we shall not give up ours. If ETA refuses to renounce violence, we shall refuse to renounce the law and dialogue, which are our weapons. We have no others. This is why I strongly urge those that presented the declaration – as I have done so in private and do so now publicly – to do all they can to enable us to sign it, because any position that is adopted on terrorism requires universal backing. On the other hand, if this declaration is supposed to stem from the 1997 declaration adopted by Parliament, which spoke of dialogue in positive terms, it would seem strange not to have recourse to it, and in particular, to the eighth paragraph in which Parliament considers dialogue in positive terms.Mr President, we should all be in a position to sign the declaration. Nothing justifies the use of terrorism and nothing justifies the failure of democratic forces to adopt a united front in the face of it.
Madam President, Truro is in Cornwall, not in Devon.Can you give assurances that France is not just playing for time? With the Scientific Committee having ruled on Friday that British beef is safe, it seems incredible that we have this further delay. I believe it is probably just a face-saving exercise on behalf of France. I am sorry that the Agriculture Minister, Mr Brown, seemed to cave in. Whatever the reasons for it, it does not help consumer confidence. We need to make sure the ban is lifted as soon as possible. Can the Commissioner give assurances that it will be lifted in the foreseeable future? Last Friday he mentioned a two week time span. Can he tell us now what he feels the time span should be for the lifting of the ban by France?
Commissioner, I should like to bring three points to your attention.Firstly, electricity and gas are two different products. By lumping them together in one report, an artificial attempt is made to treat them in the same way, and the specific differences between these products are not sufficiently emphasised.Secondly, it is vital for long-term contracts for gas transport to be safeguarded, given the increase in demand for gas, partly as a result of the planned closure of nuclear plants, and given that important investments, for example in piping, which are indispensable to the EU’s gas supply, are necessary. The gas supply is literally at stake here.Thirdly, the legislation put to the vote is diametrically opposed to the wish by industry to cut down on red-tape. Too many new obligations are being imposed. Second reading might provide an opportunity to change this.
Mr President, a surge of violence is destroying the tropical island in the Indian Ocean. Will the armistice hold at long last? When will the government and the Tamil Tigers realise that there are no winners in this civil war, and when will long-term peace be established?Now that there is a new government, we should strike while the iron is hot. It is of the utmost importance for all parties to agree on the basic principle of lasting peace. The President and Prime Minister must at long last sing from the same hymn sheet; otherwise, they will be playing into the hands of the Tigers. In the past, the Tamil Tigers have repeatedly violated armistices. Seven years ago, the last peace negotiations were unexpectedly broken off by attacks by the Tigers. And they continue to recruit soldiers, including children, even to this day.The politicians should remain vigilant, at an international level too. The monitoring by 30 observers seems very meagre indeed. Are they capable of doing a proper job? And what, I ask, can the European Union do to ensure that the weapons are put under lock and key for good and that the violent storm on this paradise-like island at long last subsides?
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Directive on enforcement that we are discussing today is completely superfluous. After all, there is already a directive in force regarding the harmonisation of copyright, and, besides, there is the Directive on e-commerce, which regulates, among other things, the rights and obligations of service providers. This new Directive threatens to cause disruption on account of the obligation to monitor what users are doing. The present compromise explicitly stipulates that previous directives remain fully in force, therefore, and that is the way it should be: why else do we make legislation here? We do not want a US-style situation in which legislation is made according to the misconceptions of the day. This new Directive on enforcement officially declares people making illegal copies to be thieves, but everyone has known for a long time that pirating of software, CDs and DVDs is a punishable offence. We certainly do not need a new directive to do this, and especially not one that fails to define the scope of intellectual property rights. We in Europe have different criminal justice systems with different penalties, and we cannot harmonise legal systems with a single directive, particularly without a proper debate in this Parliament. I can say that I am pleased that the compromise now restricts the scope of the directive to piracy for commercial purposes, as copying for personal use must continue to be permitted. Nevertheless, I shall be voting against the Directive.
Mr President, I am sure I speak on behalf of other colleagues when I say that this has been one of the most intriguing and perplexing issues I have ever had to follow. For non-specialists like myself it became at times an impenetrable mass of acronyms and technical details, and Mr Glante and Mr Vidal-Quadras Roca at times seemed to be speaking a language that sane, normal human beings could not possibly follow. I never knew, for instance, that something called the Protermo method could produce as much heat and fury as it did in the debate in our committee. It is a pity we did not combine that heat in our committee with some power while we were at it. Still, even for those such as myself who were not able to follow every twist and turn, my group is certainly extremely pleased with the outcome and looks forward to supporting the rapporteur in the vote tomorrow.We are particularly pleased that the two approaches represented by the differing sides of the debate in our committee – on the one hand wishing to retain a methodology to distinguish cogeneration from other forms of generation, and on the other hand wishing to maintain an accent on energy saving – have been retained in the famous Annexes two and three, and that some accommodation between those two perspectives has been reached. We are also extremely pleased to support the measures in this directive which protect and promote micro-cogeneration, which we feel to be an essential component in the development of CHP and also of course – I speak on behalf of my group and that of others – we are very keen to try to use tomorrow's vote as a starting point to have a serious though no doubt tough debate with the Council on maintaining and pursuing real rather than just symbolic targets.My final note is one of caution. There are a number of amendments tabled. I would urge colleagues from other groups to refrain from supporting amendments which disturb this very delicately constructed compromise. It would seem, at least to us in my group, to be a shame to jeopardise a compromise which took so long and was frankly so painful in its birth.IN THE CHAIR: MR PUERTAVice-President
Mr President, firstly I would like to express my sincerest thanks to Mrs Neena Gill for her excellent estimate of the European Parliament’s revenue and expenditure for the year 2004.It is difficult to make estimates because parliamentary elections are to be held during the year and the EU will enlarge. In general, with parliamentary elections half the Members change, and next time it will perhaps be more, as the old Member States will have 56 fewer seats. At the same time we will have 162 new Members from the new Member States. Both these factors will increase Parliament’s expenditure, and at the same time they cause uncertainty with respect to estimates.The aim is to keep Parliament’s share of administrative expenditure below 20%. The target is an ambitious one because a further EUR 46 million is to be budgeted for the Statute of Members. This expenditure item is new. For that reason exceeding the ceiling by this amount may be justified because it would not actually alter the old way costs are distributed between the EU and the Member States, as the Member States have been responsible for salaries up till now.The rapporteur is trying to improve services to Members in core activities, which is to say those duties that relate to legislation and the budget. The focus is the right one. Likewise, the rapporteur is calling for improved planning of meetings to avoid overlapping. This would cut costs, for example, through a simultaneous reduction in the number of interpreters needed, which would make interpreting arrangements for the new Member States easier in particular. At the same time that would allow Members to participate more in the work of all their committees. For that reason, the appropriateness of the constituency weeks must be assessed more precisely in the future.In this connection, however, we have to view new benefits for Members with some reservations. For example, there will be no possibility of expanding transport services, not at least before we have some definitive experience of the other new areas of expenditure.Extending the health insurance scheme to apply to former Members does not seem justified and my group is not in favour of this. Each Member State has been responsible for its previous Members’ social security matters when salaries have been paid. If Parliament applies the health insurance scheme to the current Members it is only reasonable, as they work outside their own countries and it counts as occupational health care. This argument does not apply to former Members, however, and it would be just another, somewhat covert, privilege.Multilingualism will increase in Parliament, as the number of official languages will grow from 11 to 20. This means that the practice of using two separate interpreters to translate what someone is saying will increase. We should investigate whether we could impose special obligations to translate many languages directly into the ‘big’ languages, such as English, French and German, in which case most of the Members of Parliament would be able to listen to a speech that has been translated by just one interpreter.
Mr President, the liability rules with regard to international air transport have hitherto mainly been based on the Warsaw Convention dating back to 1929. These limits are now far too low. The majority of international air carriers recognise this and signed a voluntary contract in 1995 in which they dissociate themselves from random liability limits. This formed the inspiration for the original (EC) Regulation No 2027/97. This regulation was used to step up the pressure on the international community to sign the Montreal Convention in 1999, as a result of which the new all-encompassing worldwide system for liability became an established fact. Thanks to the Montreal Convention, which is being transposed into European legislation by the present regulation, a modernised and uniform framework is being set up. This is a considerable improvement on the current international system.I would like to highlight six points this evening. First of all, I back the Commission’s aim, in the framework of the development of a charter for air passengers, to protect passengers’ rights and to inform them of these rights. The present transport conditions in the aviation industry are restrictive and overlook the statutory rights of the passengers. Competition in this sector is fierce, but success and profitable operations must be based on more and better, not worse, customer service. Some airline companies have complained to me about the fact that information to passengers involves a great deal of red tape. You will understand that I do not share their views. The cost and effort involved in informing passengers are considerably less than the efforts which the airline companies make to inform potential customers of new services they are offering.Secondly, the Member States have agreed that the Community itself is signatory to the Montreal Convention. I consider this a considerable step towards plugging the gap in the Union’s common transport policy, since we are thus recognising the fact that there is joint authority in the field of international aviation matters.Thirdly, there was some concern as to the implications of the case which IATA brought to the Supreme Court in the United Kingdom against the British government regarding the way in which it implemented Regulation No 2027/97. The court concluded that the regulation remained valid, but that it contained a number of elements which were incompatible with the obligations which Member States had entered into on account of previous pledges, in accordance with international conventions. In my opinion, this objection is no longer well-founded since the regulation has been amended and brought completely into line with the new international system of liability.Fourthly, upon drafting this report and the eighteen amendments which I recommended to the committee, I sought legal advice from various lawyers and legal experts in order to preclude any doubt which may arise in future in the legal sphere. At the same time, I very much tried to retain the right of passengers to information. The Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism adopted the amendments by general vote. These amendments can roughly be divided into three categories. First of all, the improvement of the committee text; secondly a simplification of the proposal and the guarantee of complete consistency with the Montreal Convention and, thirdly, a reinforcement of the provisions with regard to information to passengers.Our committee particularly recommends that Parliament should add an annex to the regulation, containing the text of the information notice as required pursuant to Article 6(2). That is new. In that way, airline companies will be able to offer this information in a uniform manner. The text clearly outlines the provisions of the regulation and is devoid of any legal jargon. Once this regulation enters into force – which I hope will be the case by the end of next year – coinciding with the expected entry into effect of the Montreal Convention – all airline companies in the European Union will then be required to make this information available to their passengers. The text will then be drafted in an unambiguous and understandable language which is clear to the consumer. Airline companies from non-EU countries will nonetheless be required to produce something similar covering the liability system which they operate.Considering the matter once more, I believe that the Union has the right to ask all carriers which sell tickets in the EU to provide their passengers with information on their rights to damages, not only with a view to acquainting the passengers with their rights, but also to allowing passengers to take out additional insurance, should this appear necessary.I have the following comment to make to the Commission with regard to Amendment No 9 to Article 3. In the Commission proposal, reference is made to a number of articles from the Montreal Convention. However, various relevant articles were missing. The lawyers in the court room will love this. The Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism and I are in favour of simplifying the text, thus avoiding any risk of omission. Furthermore, by ratifying the Montreal Convention, the Commission recognises the Union’s authority in this matter.Finally, I would like to recommend all eighteen amendments. I cannot recommend Amendments Nos 19 and 20, because they imply that third countries need not meet the obligation to inform passengers, even if they buy tickets in the European Union.
Mr President, we are dealing here with three important reports of course. It is true that it is not legislation, but I look forward with interest to the legislation that will follow these reports. I do that with a great deal of confidence, because on this point too we have every confidence in this Commissioner. I am curious as to whether he can indicate how long it will be before we can expect the various proposals for this legislation.The challenge, of course, is to properly coordinate consumer policy and the completion of the internal market. Consumer policy must not be allowed to be an excuse for erecting trade barriers. I also think that the figures that the Commissioner gave just now on the benefits that we all gain from harmonisation speak volumes as far as that is concerned.Consumers benefit from free trade because they can buy cheaper and better products and of course we must achieve a high level of consumer protection. Confidence is the engine of economic growth. Consumers must have confidence in products or they will not buy them. Industry must have confidence in the internal market and consumers must have confidence in suppliers. We can kill two birds with one stone. We must work towards a situation where it no longer matters to consumers whether they buy their products in the Netherlands or Greece. That is not easy.Consumers often do not know what their rights are. Consumer organisations can help with this. Consumer magazines are widely read and contain useful tips. People have a lot of confidence in these organisations. So I think  and I am glad that the Commissioner is also working for this  that the Union must involve these organisations closely in the preparatory work for future policy.Besides, unfair trading practices damage confidence in the market. A dishonest car salesman can spoil the market for his competitors. Dishonest traders must therefore be tackled forcefully, which is why it is good that the choice has been made to adopt a European approach to tackling undesirable commercial practices. Of course we need to be clear about what constitutes undesirable trading practices. For me that is not only taking advantage of physical or mental vulnerability or the use of physical or moral pressure, obstructive behaviour must also be included. For example, making it difficult for consumers to change their service provider. Only when you can switch easily from one service provider to another, do you have optimum competition resulting in lower prices and better quality. Just think about changing your bank. They make it terribly difficult for you. You cannot take your account number with you and I think these are artificial barriers.Finally, Mr President, I think that the Commission should use Article 153 of the Treaty more often as the legal basis for consumer protection. We did not create this Article for nothing and it will benefit both the consumer and the internal market.
Madam President, they could not fly for four days after 11 September and now they want to have a monopoly for more than a year. Everything can be blamed on 11 September. Please give us a free economy.
Mr President, at a time when the candidate countries in Central and Eastern Europe have been subject to quite a great deal of criticism from EU Heads of Governments, and from European Commissioners and others, for making their views on the Iraq crisis known, the  Group strongly welcomes the statement from the European Commission that the central priority must and will remain enlargement. It is in our view absurd that so many criticisms have been made of candidate countries; they have been reprimanded in a condescending manner when the divisions that have opened up within the European Union in the current crisis are almost entirely of the making of the existing Member States.It is of course true that the European Union is not a supermarket, but equally it is not a temple in which people who speak a little too loudly are asked to remain quiet. The reasons why divisions have opened up are largely to do with insistence by existing Member States on a slavish allegiance to Washington, or an equally stubborn hostility to everything that emanates from the United States. The candidate countries are innocent bystanders in that debate and should not be penalised for having being pressured into making their views known.That is why we strongly welcome your emphasis, President Prodi, on making sure that these current problems do not in any way derail or slow down the enlargement process and hope that you will do everything possible to see the enlargement process through to its logical conclusion next year.The second point I would like to make is on the issue of governance. This document is a useful step forward in the improvement of EU governance and to that extent we welcome it warmly. It is crucial that governance is improved at an institutional level. There is no point in one institution or another raising its game if the other institutions do not reciprocate. That is why the  Group is especially keen that the somewhat stalled talks in the interinstitutional working group, which is looking at the way in which we all collectively improve our law-making capacity, should conclude as quickly as possible. Deadlines have slipped; the group should have concluded its work at the end of last year and the new deadline for the spring summit also now seems unrealistic. It is essential that we all pull our weight in the three institutions concerned to make this institutional approach a reality.Let me give you an example. You cite at length in your document the very laudable attempts in the European Commission to apply impact assessments of a number of key legislative proposals. I think you are proposing to do that on 31 proposals in 2004. There would be no point in those impact assessments if MEPs in the European Parliament or Ministers in the Council of Ministers were then to ignore your assessment and simply revise the legislation without any regard for the impact. That is why many of us in the interinstitutional working group have been urging you in the European Commission to think about how you could extrapolate your excellent work in the impact assessment field and urge all institutions to sign up to similar practices. We would certainly urge you to redouble those efforts in the weeks ahead.
Mr President, firstly I wish to thank Ms de Palacio for her excellent introduction. The European Union’s common space policy is important. The European Space Agency is an essential part of European integration. Most of the members of the European Space Agency are members of the EU, and most of the members of the EU are also members of the European Space Agency. Space technology is a very important area for policy on research and industry. At present more than 40 000 people work in the space industry and the sector indirectly creates employment for as many as 250 000. Space research is traditionally at the forefront of all research. Many of the discoveries made there are later on applied in the circumstances of everyday life, to become of service to the whole public.By far the largest and most important of the projects jointly engaged in by the European Union and the ESA is the Galileo Satellite Navigation Programme. It is a system based on satellites and ground stations, which is intended to be introduced in 2008. It will enable receivers to locate their whereabouts and determine what time it is, with extreme accuracy, anywhere on earth. The European system differs from the American GPS and the Russian Glonas systems in that it is the most modern system, and its operation would not be adversely affected in times of crisis. The last war in Iraq showed just how important this is. The Galileo system would secure the non-dependence of the EU and the ESA on the other systems, whose management would be none of their business.The EU’s involvement is mainly restricted to developing the Galileo system, which should be completed in 2005. This phase will cost at least EUR 1.1 billion, of which the EU has undertaken to pay half and the ESA the other half. In addition, the private sector should be involved in the project, contributing around EUR 200 million. The Galileo system is vital for the development of European research and technology. The EU and the ESA countries should be at the global forefront of space technology.
Mr President, the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party welcomes the Commission’s proposal, which will lead to increased public scrutiny of public undertakings and to increased competition. We want to thank Mrs Randzio-Plath for cooperating so well.State aid distorts competition and is unfair to both consumers and companies. In principle, the Treaty prohibits all types of state aid, including cross-subsidies. The Treaty does not, however, prohibit the existence of public undertakings providing services in the public interest. Whatever one may think about this, it is for the Member States themselves to define what is meant by services in the public interest. The Member States should not, however, themselves decide what kinds of aid they will be granting these undertakings.The Court of First Instance in Luxembourg stated as late as last week that state support for TV and radio companies may only be provided once the Commission has said that this is compatible with the Treaty. The rules must be applied in the same way to all parties. All aid which is not used to finance services in the public interest is prohibited and is to be opposed. State radio stations and TV companies now often provide services which are outside the scope of what we call services in the public interest. An example is Internet connection. Those resources which the State has injected into companies to finance their basic activities ought not, of course, to be used to finance the provision of Internet connections. In that case, competition is distorted, to the disadvantage both of consumers and of private companies.The Commission’s proposal requires companies to openly account for the resources provided to them as public undertakings and for how these have been used. Companies must also show what costs they have, where their income comes from and how this is derived from their various activities. These are very reasonable demands. Both these obligations are simple means of upholding the rules governing relations between private and public undertakings. This is important for the purpose of maintaining proper rules in the internal market.
Mr President, it is good that we now have a couple of directives aimed at labelling genetically modified organisms. However, I believe that they have come too late by around 10-15 years, as GMOs are already being used in the production of a very large proportion of our food.When people started to grow crops and domesticate animals around ten thousand years ago, they also started refining natural properties. Now we are able not only to choose between different types of plant and individual plants but also to choose the characteristics of the individual plant. It is the same aim we have had for thousands of years, but we have new methods. I profess that I believe in science, I believe in this technology and I believe that we should use our knowledge, but we must be aware that new knowledge always means new risks and requires increased caution. These are two important areas to be considered in this context, public health and possible threats to the environment.Many people are concerned. We have reason to take these concerns seriously. The consumer requires labelling, and the consumer is always right. We as politicians must take our responsibility. If one takes the environmental aspect seriously, which, in contrast to Mr Trakatellis, I do, all food must be labelled, including in those cases where GMOs cannot be detected and where they have only been used to assist production. I therefore fully support the proposal of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy. I also support a number of the amendments proposed by the Group of theand the Group of thewhich go one step further. I believe it is extremely important that we who believe in the technology are also honest.
At a forthcoming review of these programmes, it ought to be established that the EU’s efforts are to be concentrated upon cross-border tasks and adapted to the possible enlargement of the EU.
Mr President, first of all, I should like to thank Mrs Fraga Estevez for a splendid piece of work in connection with the report. Just as I said earlier in connection with Mr Gallagher’s report, those of us in the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party are concerned that, in line with developments, we allow the self-funding sector, that is to say the ship owners and fishermen, to pay a larger contribution towards those agreements from which they of course benefit most. The fisheries agreement with Madagascar is valuable not only for the Community but also for Madagascar. The high degree to which the Community’s fishing opportunities are exploited is impressive and worth emphasising. I should like to support Mrs Fraga Estevez in saying that, in the funding of the fisheries agreements, a sharp and clear distinction should be made between the portion used to fund fishing opportunities and the portion used to fund development measures which, in the EU’s budget, should appear as development aid.The agreements are exceedingly important to those regions of Europe in which fishing is the most important activity, and we are concerned here not merely with the work of the fishermen but also with associated businesses on land. It is the EU’s responsibility to ensure that, when we conclude agreements, it is surplus resources with which we are concerned. Matters must be arranged in such a way that local fishermen are provided with development opportunities, and that means that the EU must secure the concept of sustainability. This agreement, like the one with Senegal, is important to the Community, partly of course in the light of the fact that the fisheries agreement with Morocco was not renewed.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Roth-Behrendt’s report is excellent, and I am pleased that there are to be restrictions upon animal experiments.Mrs Roth-Behrendt also proposes a total marketing ban on animal-tested cosmetic products which is to come into effect five years after the adoption of the directive, even if no alternative testing methods are available. This strategy may be in danger of temporarily restricting product development in the cosmetics industry, but it will considerably increase the incentives for developing alternative testing methods that do not involve animal experiments. Nonetheless, the proposed ban on animal experiments is not in itself enough, because the industry could quite simply conduct its experiments outside the EU instead. That is why a marketing ban is also needed. Such a ban would prevent producers in non-EU countries from obtaining market advantages by being able to continue making use of animal experiments. Instead, competition would mean that other methods would have to be developed.As a liberal, I care a great deal about the rights of individuals. I take the liberty of also including the right of animals not to have to be exposed to unnecessary suffering. I also care a great deal about free, informed choice on the part of consumers. It is therefore important that, through detailed and accurate labelling, consumers should immediately be given a chance to adopt positions on matters themselves. In this connection, I would ask you to pay particular attention to Amendment No 39, which proposes that animal-tested products should be required to be labelled with the words, ‘Tested on animals’.With a marketing ban and a ban on animal experiments, together with other measures supported by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, I believe we shall make significant progress, I am glad to say.
Madam President, I agree with the two former speakers that this is an annual report of the first rank and of the highest political order. It is precisely because I agree that I believe this Parliament should use this occasion to signal to the Court of Auditors its intense disquiet at the fact that a document of substance of the sort prepared by the Court should, whether correct or incorrect in terms of its content, have found its way into Der Spiegel of 8 November.This is not the way to do business. In a matter as weighty as this it is not right, on whoever’s part – and I do not know who is to blame for this leak – to seek a route which chooses the sensational over the institutional management of this issue.We are the body with the political competence to take into account the substantial and professional work of the Court of Auditors. It does not make sense that we should now be negotiating with the European Commission, following all the events of the past several months, a new code of conduct which, inter alia, insists that where there are issues of importance the Commission first comes here to tell this House what they are and then to take a procedure, such as the annual Report of the Court of Auditors, and say: there was a leak, it is a bit unfortunate, but let us get on with business as if nothing happened. No. This is the moment to draw a line and say to the Court of Auditors – whom my group holds in very high esteem – that we have separate functions: they audit and we do the politics.One of the tasks between now and December, if we choose to postpone this matter – as was the view of the majority of the Conference of Presidents – would be to invite the President of the Court of Auditors to undertake an extensive investigation as to whether it was to the Court or another institution that the leak could be traced.It was the Committee on Budgetary Control of Parliament which began years ago to insist that we should give, as parliamentarians, this report the weight that it deserves. In saying “postpone it” we are saying we want to take command of what is in it – not to sweep it under the carpet. We are saying that from now on there are new rules of engagement, not just with the Commission. The creeping propensity to find ourselves, as parliamentarians, on the back foot, explaining leaks that were inspired by one source or another is not the way to do business. Let us claim our rights as the institution. Let us stop sensationalising the work of the Court of Auditors.
Mr President, Commissioner, the European Convention proposes that the conservation of the sea’s biological resources must be the exclusive competence of the EU, while fishing should be an area in which the EU and the Member States have shared competence. This issue has been sidelined in the major debate about the future. Anyone familiar with issues relating to fisheries will find it very hard to understand that the Convention has proposed separating these areas. Rules concerning the way in which fishing is conducted are the very rules through which we enact decisions concerning the conservation of biological resources. Through provisions concerning mesh sizes, fishing periods and permitted gear, fishing can be regulated and the marine environment conserved. What, moreover, is really important for the marine environment is that aid to the floating fish factories should cease.For myself and many others, it is unclear how the Convention’s proposal would work in practice. What, for example, would it mean for seals and for the fishing industry? Where these matters are concerned, I hope that, for example, the Commissioner would explain to those who fish in the Kvarken straits, the Gulf of Finland and the archipelagoes what the outcome of this decision would be. I appeal to the Commission to clarify its positions on these issues too.If EU measures in favour of the marine environment are to produce results, there must be closer compliance with the rules, fewer exceptions and more effective international cooperation. We are successful internationally when we cooperate on matters such as the Oil Fund, to quote just one example. It also means, however, that the Member States must be prepared to take a stand on important proposals, such as the most recent one to impose penalties in connection with deliberate discharges of oil. Unfortunately, we see, however, the way in which legal hair-splitting constitutes an obstacle to the directive in the Council. Despite the fact that a Directive on oil reception facilities has been adopted, there has been no reduction in deliberate oil discharges.Commissioner, I would finally appeal to you to get a firm grip on HELCOM – the Helsinki Commission for Baltic Marine Environment Protection. It must not be a relic from the Cold War, merely issuing recommendations that do not lead to any measures being taken. Following the EU’s enlargement, it will be possible for HELCOM to be a body attending to its task in accordance with the Water Framework Directive. If it is to be reformed, HELCOM needs the support of the Commission, especially when, for the first time in history, the new boss, who takes office on 1 August, is a woman. This organisation can implement the regional way of tackling things that both Parliament and the Commission wish to see.I would also ask Commissioner Wallström to convince her colleague, Mrs de Palacio, that the Commission must be more active in supporting Finland and Sweden when it comes to ice classification. Unfortunately, it was only Italy and the Commission that opposed the Nordic proposals concerning clearer shipping rules in this part of the EU too.
Mr President, I would first of all address the Commissioner and say that I naturally welcome the present proposal. Secondly, I want to congratulate Mrs Roth-Behrendt on a very good piece of work. I also want to thank Mr Böge. I wish to support in principle all the amendments from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection.Nowadays, we know a very great deal indeed about the living world. Life is not, however, complete, as it were, but is evolving all the time. It is evolving not only in a positive way, but also in a negative way. As time goes on, we are faced with new viruses and new problems. The BSE crisis is an example of such a phenomenon. There are, however, also many more examples.There are therefore two things which must be done. The first is the matter with which we are occupied at present, namely trying to ensure that we get the better both of BSE and of TSE, which is, of course, a broader concept. We must make sure that the situation does not occur again. However, we must also find ways of overcoming similar tragedies in the future. Such tragedies will clearly not occur in precisely this area but will crop up elsewhere. This illustrates what the present debate teaches us: that we must have comprehensive regulations for the whole of the common market constituted by the EU. We must have the same rules, monitored in the same way. Everyone must be treated the same.Understandable differences in attitudes have emerged in the course of the debates which we have conducted in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy and in the party groups and which are also being conducted here and now in this Chamber. I am thinking of the last intervention. The United Kingdom has been affected badly. I can well understand why people there have points of view as to how it might perhaps be possible to make savings. Allow me, however, to say something which is extremely important. We must never suffer for having looked to short-term economic gains at the risk of long-term security. There is a danger of the short-term economy’s taking over at the expense of reason and caution.To my party colleague, Mrs Attwooll, I have to say that I understand the current amendments very well but that I cannot support them. That would mean our becoming unclear and sending out false signals. I believe it is extremely important that when, in this context, we decide about this report, we send out a crystal clear signal about the firmness of our judgement on the issue of food safety. This is important prior to the forthcoming debate on the whole project entailed in the white paper which has been announced.
Mr President, if the political problems cannot be resolved at long last, the issue of Cyprus has the potential to derail the entire enlargement process or to leave us in the ridiculous situation where hundreds of thousands of Turkish Cypriots are notionally EU citizens without having being consulted, while at the same time facing EU sanctions of a political and economic nature. We cannot afford to close our eyes to the reality.I look forward to Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot politicians sitting alongside us as parliamentarians in this Chamber and to the creation of a bi-zonal federal state. But in discussing this issue, it is not acceptable simply to say that the problems of Cyprus started with the Turkish invasion in 1974 without mentioning the divisions of the island from 1963 when Greek Cypriots murdered Turkish Cypriots. If there is to be true reconciliation between these peoples, then complete objectivity is needed and in this report before us that is too sadly lacking.
Mr President, as you must know, a lot of exciting things are happening in Cuba right now. There is a major referendum project and calls for there to be a vote on introducing democracy. Fidel Castro’s response to this has been to make socialism an inescapable part of the constitution, something which is a very serious matter.The Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party has arranged a meeting for Thursday in this building. We have invited four liberal friends from Cuba who are working entirely peacefully on issues of democratisation. The Cuban Government has, however, denied them permission to travel. They are therefore invited by the European Parliament but are not allowed to leave Cuba, something I find deeply disquieting. I hope that you can perhaps protest about their treatment to the Cuban authorities.
Mr President, I should like to associate myself with what Mr Watson and other fellow Members here have already said. In itself this is an extraordinarily important agreement and it is therefore all the more a crying shame that the consultation of the various people’s representations is not properly organised. In my own country, for example, the agreements had to be read in a room because the agreement was a secret one. We have now had them handed out and I wonder whether this method of discussion is the right one? I share the view of the Chairman of our Committee that we may possibly have to go to the Court of Justice if a different procedure is not followed.In any event I have some specific questions. Is it right that the American Government should refuse to accept the International Criminal Court? Can you say explicitly what role the Council is planning to assign to the International Criminal Court? Have the candidate countries been consulted? This proposal does after all affect them too. Is not the lower limit of one year, on the basis of which people can be extradited, far too low? In short, Mr President, I doubt very much that this will be handled properly and I should therefore be very glad to see that we can discuss this subject more and better than is currently the case.
I just want to ask Mr Kinnock, can we be sure that all these excellent reforms will also be implemented in this House?***IN THE CHAIR: MR IMBENIVice-President
The fact that our colleague, Mr van Hulten has taken the opportunity of discharge for the 2002 financial year to speak in favour of a single venue for the European Parliament, namely Brussels, is no surprise to me. That he makes use of hypocrisy and makes factually inaccurate statements in support of this is an insult to his intelligence.Paragraph 69 of his motion for a resolution includes an error. It gives the impression that the quoted sums of EUR 185 and 203 million are overspends arising from the retention of three venues, while these are in fact the total costs. Of course, even a single venue involves a cost.Paragraph 70 goes on from the confusion and includes falsehoods. I shall leave it for our French colleagues to respond to the attacks on Strasbourg. I protest vehemently at the insinuations to the effect that Luxembourg has access problems, health problems or security problems. This is in bad faith.Consequently, I have voted in favour of Amendments Nos 16 to 20, deleting paragraphs 69 to 73, tabled by the Group of the European People’s Party.
Mr President, may I first of all thank the Chairman of the Committee on Fisheries, Mr Varela, for a particularly good piece of work on these reports. In principle, those of us in the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party support the EU’s having fisheries agreements with third countries, but I should also like to point out that what we in thewant – and this is why we have tabled a number of amendments – is for the fishermen or ship owners to make more of a contribution to financing the fisheries agreements. It is, of course, only right that they should be involved in financing those agreements from which they themselves benefit more than anyone else. The fisheries agreements are extremely important for certain regions in which, in addition to employment in the fisheries sector itself, there are a range of associated businesses wholly or partially dependent upon the fishing industry. By means of the fisheries agreements, the EU is able to develop its activities in this sphere and exchange fishing rights with third countries. The effect of the EU fleets upon fishing resources – in terms of structural policy and the financial situation – ought to be analysed much more than it is at present. I want to conclude by asking the Commission to provide the Committee on Fisheries with a report on what for third countries are the positive and negative consequences of the EU’s fisheries agreements.
Mr President, I thank the minister for his extremely interesting speech and for his support for the setting up of a Council of Ministers within a defence formation. What puzzles me is what exactly is the status of the draft agreement brokered between Britain, the US and Turkey, between the European Union and the non-European Union NATO European members? Despite the fact that the draft agreement remains fairly secretive, I read it with great care. It seems to me that it represents faithfully the conclusions of the Nice European Council, that the security interests not only of the European Union but also of Turkey should be guaranteed by the operation of the rapid reaction force. The draft agreement allows for the Council to decide to invite Turkey to play a part where NATO facilities are not required. That does not seem to me to represent a threat to the autonomy of the European Union. I should be most grateful for a clear explanation of precisely what the problem is inside the Council.
Mr President, I, too, wish to congratulate Mrs Weiler on her report. I very much agree with her remark about the significance of training and the importance of making a special effort on behalf of older people in the labour market. I do not agree that we, in the EU, should have a directive granting any rights, but I well understand that many in this House want to see special emphasis and importance given to actually ensuring a right to training. However, this is something which the individual countries must take care of. The employment guidelines provide, of course, both some political priorities and some political objectives, and they also provide a framework for deciding which funds are to be used in order to achieve the objectives.The funds are allocated to four pillars. The unemployed must be made better qualified to obtain jobs. They must be given more incentives to get into employment. That is the first pillar. Secondly, entrepreneurship must be promoted so that we see more companies and jobs created, partly through the removal of constricting regulations and bureaucratic arrangements. Thirdly, adaptability and flexibility must be promoted so that companies become more competitive. And fourthly, more opportunities must be provided for combining working life and family life so that there is a real opportunity for women to achieve equality in the labour market, leading to an improvement in the employment situation where women are concerned.Many points have been registered under the four pillars, and I believe we are coming to a point at which it is worth considering whether we are pinning too much on this process, for the more objectives we add to the process, the more we are also in danger of watering down the cooperation and perhaps losing sight of the real goals, namely those of creating more jobs and getting the unemployed into work. That being said, I am very pleased that, this time, we have obtained an innovation in the guidelines for the year 2000, whereby local and regional efforts are to be involved and local and regional employment strategies developed. I also believe this underlines the fact that the Commission will need resources for carrying out analyses and studies within this area.
Madam President, Commissioner, President-in-Office of the Council, we have discussed this matter for quite some time in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, with reports and hearings. Most of us have also had bilateral contact with a number of representatives of Algeria. We have done all of this not only because we take this issue seriously, but also because there are many issues concerning Algeria which need to be dealt with. The Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party is particularly concerned about the human rights situation.We know that serious human rights violations are being committed in Algeria. Torture and persecution of opponents are unfortunately not unusual, and there are many reports of abuses by military and paramilitary groups. Thousands of citizens have disappeared, and it is worrying that the Algerian authorities have not permitted UN observers to investigate this situation. The situation in Kabylia is still desperate, and peaceful demonstrators have been killed. Much remains to be done in Algeria in the domains of freedom of the press, freedom of association and the establishment of the rule of law. The country also has a terrorism problem.These issues are described very well and in great detail in Mr Brok’s resolution. It also points out the need for a regular follow-up of the way in which human rights are being observed, for scrutiny and for interparliamentary dialogue. Thehas made constructive efforts to contribute to this resolution. It is therefore with some surprise and disappointment that we note that thehave put forward a number of amendments which considerably dilute the resolution. If these amendments are adopted, we believe that the resolution will not have the required force or constitute the complement to the recommendation by Mr Obiols i Germà that is so important. Thewould vote against the resolution.It would be a shame if these points disappeared, because it is very important to put pressure on the Algerian Government. The association agreement is important for Algeria. In spite of the agreement’s shortcomings, we believe that Europe has to help Algeria to build up its economic, political and democratic institutions. As has been pointed out, the agreement constitutes an extremely important part of the Barcelona process.Madam President, by way of conclusion I wish to address a few words to the Commission. What is the significance of Article 2 of the association agreement: the human rights clause? We have discussed it many, many times, but it has never been acted upon. What is so terribly difficult about finding mechanisms for temporarily or, if necessary, permanently breaking off cooperation, with reference to Article 2, when serious human rights violations are carried out? If we do not lead from the front on this issue, we will actually make ourselves look ridiculous, and we risk not being taken seriously in the field of foreign policy. If so, all our talk of a human rights dimension in foreign policy will be nothing but resoundingly empty words.
Mr President, in my speech I shall focus on the practical implementation of regional and structural policy, which is a key element in successful enlargement as well as preparations for it. The Commission and the applicant countries must prepare for enlargement in a way that avoids needless delays in the start-up of programmes and so that the money set aside for these preparations can be used effectively. The Structural Funds must also be used in a way that is as uncomplicated and efficient as possible. There is much room for improvement here, which is evident, for example, from Mr Turco’s report.Aid must be allocated and staggered so that the funds get to the local players as directly as possible and primarily to the poorest regions of all. Structural work must adopt the principle of phasing in increased batches of aid. It is reasonable to use the Cohesion Fund in the early stages, but in the future the programme-based financing share must be increased.Skills, know-how, new technology and good levels of networking between SMEs and regional players are essential in implementing effective regional policy and promoting the positive impact of enlargement. The particular challenge is not so much the adoption of Community legal provisions but their implementation and monitoring.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the World Trade Organisation has a future. It is true that in the coming years the 144 Member States will resume negotiations on the further liberalisation of world trade, but more than ever before, the rich man’s club has learnt that survival of the fittest no longer applies. Indeed, the developing countries have made huge progress and have made their mark during the negotiations. However, the European Union also has reason to be satisfied. Thanks to the commitment and perseverance of the European negotiators, both our Commissioners who are present today, an agreement has ultimately been reached on a broad-based negotiation round. For example, in the new round, there will be scope for negotiations about public spending, competition, investments, and the link between international environmental agreements and the WHO rules.These trade discussions are held at a significant time, because after the acts of terrorism in the United States, they send out the message that the Member States are prepared to join forces at international level and that terrorists cannot undermine international trade. Furthermore, it is important to continue the liberal trade policy because it can give the failing world economy a shot in the arm.Finally, I should like to point out that the WTO’s challenge is to continue to develop the multi-lateral trade system in such a way as to ensure that globalisation yields the best possible benefits for as many people and countries as possible. We must continue to strive as we have for over fifty years.
Mr President, Mr Duisenberg, we in Sweden are relatively new to the EU, and I am new to this House. It is my understanding that we Swedes still have a lot to learn within the field of European cooperation. At the same time, it is my conviction that there is also a great deal for the EU to learn from how we handle some things in Sweden, for example the issues of openness and public access to official records.When it comes to the report on the European Central Bank, there is every reason to wonder whether we should not be able to do more to increase openness within the European Central Bank and public control of its affairs, to strengthen the Bank’s legitimacy and to increase democratic support for it. We Liberals believe that this is needed, and without, moreover, encroaching upon the Bank’s independence or reducing its efficiency.The Bank of Sweden now reports, with two weeks’ delay, upon the minutes of the meetings of the Board of Directors. Monetary considerations, together with the positions adopted by the various Board Members, are reported on at this time. Last week, Swedes learned that the Deputy Chief Executive of the Bank of Sweden, together with a further Member of the Board, did not back the Bank’s latest report on inflation. They advocated a rise in interest rates but were voted down.Similar openness would be to the advantage of the European Central Bank too. Why? Well, openness leads to clarity, which reduces uneasiness in the market and makes for stability. However, Mr Duisenberg and I are clearly not properly in agreement about this argument. Openness would increase our citizens’ support for the Bank and make it easier for everyone to understand the goal of monetary policy: that price stability, just as Mr Duisenberg said, should lead to growth and employment. In my opinion, being open about strategies and prognoses, internal discussions and methods of voting will also actually increase Board Members’ accountability, not reduce it. It is actually a good thing to be open to public scrutiny.I want to say too that we have today been able to see that support for EMU in Sweden has increased, which I am glad about. I should like to tell Mr Duisenberg that support for EMU and the likelihood of taking Sweden into EMU will increase if he and the European Central Bank display greater openness.
Mr President, I shall read out on Mr Vermeer's behalf the speech that he wanted to deliver. That Mr Vermeer is unable to attend today is due to the HGV traffic that is not allowed to drive on Sundays but that subsequently causes so much traffic on Mondays that he is unable to get here on time.It is not the purpose of this proposal, namely the harmonisation of driving bans on the Trans-European Network, that is called into question by my group, but the way in which this is done. A general expansion of weekend driving bans is a very sensitive issue in our group. A driving ban, however useful it may be, has a drastic effect on the principle of the free movement of goods and hits the peripheral countries the hardest. Especially for those countries, the grapes are sour because the benefits of the internal market are not always that evident to them. The introduction of a driving ban simply causes a greater traffic flow on a limited number of days and with it, an entirely different traffic pressure, even in the so-called transit countries. The irony of this artificial state of affairs is that the Member States on the TEN network, which often enjoys EU funding, are entitled to introduce driving restrictions without these being adequately examined by the Commission, for example, on their usefulness.On behalf of the  Group, I have therefore tabled a few amendments that should make this possible. The aim of my amendment is to allow Member States to introduce a driving ban if this is justified on the basis of various criteria, such as the environment, safety or on social grounds. This should prevent a proliferation of driving bans from being imposed. I would therefore ask for your support for Amendment No 23.As far as the rapporteur’s Amendments Nos 4 and 13 are concerned, in which topographical reasons are given to justify driving bans, these are not acceptable to my group. What exactly is a topographical reason and how is it defined? In the explanatory note to that amendment, reference is made to the Alps. However, the Dutch polder landscape can also form a topographical motive for a driving ban, for example. This concept is, in my view, wide open to misuse. Should these Amendments Nos 4 and 13 be adopted during the vote of this report tomorrow, then I, as the shadow rapporteur, will advise my group to vote against the report as a whole. Let us leave the internal market open and not create too many restrictions or opportunities for restrictions.
Mr President, I am sure that Mrs Schreyer must have a very good reason for not being here because her absence would be inexcusable otherwise. I would like to start by thanking my colleagues for their cooperation on this report, it would not be what it is today without that spirit of cooperation.(NL) Mr President, early last year, the 1997 discharge was postponed because this Parliament could not possibly grant discharge to a resigning Commission which could not enter into any commitments for the future. In its resolution, this Parliament stated that discharge could not be granted until we had received serious, far-reaching proposals for reform from the new European Commission. This report, therefore, appears at a crucial time, on the eve of Mr Kinnock’s reforms. It is an excellent opportunity for this Parliament to introduce far-reaching reforms to these plans. In the period leading up to this, it already appeared, on the basis of the initial drafts, that the Commission had made very important pledges. We asked for a whistle-blower’s regulation, and this is now in place. Parliament wanted financial inspection and audit functions to be separated. This has now been done. Parliament requires a code of conduct for Commissioners and Cabinets. This is in place too. Parliament asked the Commission to waive its excessive privileges. It did this as well. The Commission has also entered into commitments to cooperate with Parliament in terms of SEM 2000. Fundamental changes will also be considered for the technical assistance offices.These are sound, first steps which illustrate that, if this Parliament so wishes, changes are not only possible but can also be translated into action quickly. We want more than that, however. The Commission should now produce an ambitious and far-reaching reform programme. This is not only necessary for proper public administration, it is a conditio sine qua non of regaining the trust of the European citizen. We now demand from the European Commission clear pledges concerning the following points.Firstly, Parliament must have complete access to all Commission documents. This, however, presupposes that we set up an internal scheme quickly in order to be able to guarantee the confidentiality of sensitive documents. In the context of providing information, I would like to draw the Commission’s attention to the fact that we are very concerned about the present draft plans on public access to documents. If the current draft is correct, then this is a huge step backwards in comparison to today. We must put an end to the situation in which financially powerful organisations with representation in Brussels are able to access information whilst the ordinary citizen is not. Neither can we tolerate a situation in which a public body holds the copyright to public documents.We would also like a clear job description for each European official so that an official with conscientious objections can more easily object to tasks which are unethical or unlawful.Furthermore, it should be the case that, if the Court of Auditors detects a mistake not just one year but two years running, the management should be held responsible for it, and this will have an effect on chances of promotion. Ultimately, we also need to achieve better cooperation, of course, between the European Court of Auditors and its national counterparts.This Parliament has also asked the Commission to give an initial outline of the external aid policy reforms on 31 March of this year. It should no longer be the case that, although Europe is an economic power, we have no political influence because, when the chips are down, we cannot offer effective aid to areas which desperately need it. I would quote Gaza as an example. It is unacceptable that the Commission completed the construction of a hospital in 1996 and that, as yet, it has been left unused.Mr President, since 1996, the discharge has acquired a heavy, political significance. It is one of the most powerful weapons Parliament has and must therefore be deployed with care. This is why we will most probably grant the discharge tomorrow. However, we are not surrendering this weapon without placing a time bomb in its place. Indeed, the 1999 discharge will not be given until all financial irregularities highlighted by the Court of Auditors have been cleared up.Finally, this discharge report is naturally addressed to the Commission. But this does not detract from the fact that the European Parliament should also put its own house in order. As long as we have no status, we are not credible as a force for reforming the Union. The reforms of the European institutions are necessary in order to be able to continue Europe’s development process. We cannot have a decisive and fair Europe unless it is also open and democratic. All institutions must now join forces in order to work together towards building this type of Europe.
Mr President, Commissioner, this is a very positive Thursday for the European regions in general and for the outermost regions in particular, since this Parliament is dealing with reports as thought-provoking and important as those of Mr Turco and Mr Ripoll, which refer to the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund respectively, as well as the assessment of the transparency of their implementation.It is therefore worth remembering that regional and structural policy in the European Union as a whole is a response to the specific disadvantages confronting certain European regions and, in particular, the outermost regions such as Madeira, the Azores, the Canary Islands and the French overseas departments.In fact, Articles 158 and 159 of the Treaty set the objectives for economic and social cohesion, giving regional policy the task of reducing the existing differences between the less developed regions and the others. It also leads to the special treatment of the outermost regions which is covered in Article 299(2) of the EC Treaty, which will allow the Union to continue, consolidate and strengthen its action in order to achieve a specific system of measures that will take account of all the limitations suffered in those regions, whose situation is special, without damaging the coherence of Community law and the internal market.For these reasons, Mr Turco’s report on the 1998 annual report on such important financial instruments as the Structural Funds is also relevant, since it opens up the possibility of strengthening the effective and decentralised application of those Funds and also because it opens the way for discussion and reflects the specific situation of these outermost regions with regard to establishing criteria for admission to the Structural Funds and their inclusion in Objective 1.
Mr President, I wish to take the opportunity of talking about girls’ education, for without girls’ education there is no equality for women. Our fellow MEP, Mrs Martens, also mentioned that UNICEF’s report, ‘The State of the World's Children, 2004’, published last week, really does make frightening reading.We give pledge after pledge, for example in the millennium declaration. Following the UN Special Session on Children, we undertook to reduce the difference between girls and boys where illiteracy is concerned and to giving girls good access to education. We have had the fast track initiatives within the World Bank’s Development Committee, but what is happening? Today, we know that more than 120 million children have no schooling. Fifteen per cent of all boys and 21% of all girls do not go to school. In South-East Asia and in the countries south of the Sahara, the situation is particularly painful.Under the World Bank’s fast track initiatives, the developed countries approved a USD 326 million funding plan last year, but, to date, only USD 207 million has been given by way of appropriations. This means a funding deficit of nearly USD 118 million in a year and a half. We have not fulfilled our pledges. It is we in the developed countries who have not done our part. The developing countries have put forward their plans and done what they should have done. Among the EU countries, Italy allocates only 0.3% and Germany only 2.1% of their aid budgets to development. It is really only the Netherlands that has fulfilled its pledges to the world’s children.How will matters stand after all the declarations and, in particular, following the UN Special Session on Children, at which young people themselves were present and demanded the right to education? The sums concerned are, after all, small in comparison with those entailed in many other pledges. I believe that the EU and the Commission combined should get their act together and fulfil their pledges made, for example, within the World Bank.
Mr President, the aim of the IGC is to reconcile enlargement with deepening. In particular, we need to review the interinstitutional balance, representation within the Commission and the other institutions, the weighting of votes and the areas covered by qualified majority voting. Unanimity voting must apply to decisions of a constitutional and fundamental nature. Closer cooperation must make it possible to manage diversity and avoid getting bogged down, without calling the fundamental structure of the Union into question.The report by our fellow Members, whom I want to congratulate, has been substantially improved over the course of the discussions. Nonetheless, the outlined reform will hit the small Member States hardest. That applies in particular to the provisions on the composition and operation of the institutions. A Parliament in which the ceiling of four seats per Member State, which does not allow for a balanced representation of the political forces, is unacceptable. The same is true of a Council in which the qualified majority rules have to be readjusted and whose proposed method of operation will inevitably lead to deadlock and inconsistency, and of a Commission in which the rule must be one member per Member State.Lastly, let me bring up the question of the seat of Parliament and call for the promise made to be respected. I am always surprised to see our Parliament, which sets itself up as the committed champion of respect for minority rights when it comes to others, go against this approach when it comes to deciding on the institutional architecture of our own House.
As my colleague Bill Newton-Dunn said, we have a number of colleagues in the UK who are indulging in fairly standard if facile anti-European scaremongering on this proposal and they have got a large number of sugarbeet farmers extremely worried. We need your help to be able to persuade our constituents and our farming community that the claims made by the anti-European wing in our political environment, and indeed others, are wrong. To that end, could you perhaps reassure me firstly when the impact assessment will be available to us so that we can cite it to perhaps explode some of the apocalyptic claims that have surrounded your proposal and, secondly, give some more details about the safeguard clause which I think you are considering introducing into this measure and also the transition period before the measure finally gets implemented?
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the report by Mrs Berger, whom I should like to thank for the large amount of work she has done, has once again clearly regenerated the traditional fight in this Parliament for more or less harmonisation. It might be useful to remind ourselves of the fact that in the original Commission proposal, maximum harmonisation was very much the main objective in terms of distance marketing of financial services. The Council, on the other hand, took a completely different view.Needless to say, a great deal can be said for the Commission’s original position. It was undoubtedly the best solution, both for providers of financial services and for the consumer. The division in Parliament, however, makes it impossible to secure this best solution. Moreover, in its common position, the Council would like to introduce exceptions to the principle of maximum harmonisation. This is unfortunate, for national provisions can indeed constitute barriers to the establishment of the internal market. Only complete harmonisation guarantees equal competitive conditions between the institutions and instils consumer confidence in services that are offered by other Member States. The exceptions to the principle of complete harmonisation can seriously hinder e-commerce because service providers are thus obliged to take account of provisions enshrined in the fifteen different legal systems. I should also like to emphasise that the principle concerning the right of the country of origin will on the whole apply when there is no complete harmonisation. This will be extremely detrimental to some institutions because the legislations are very different in the area of restrictions.By way of conclusion, I can therefore state that maximum harmonisation is still the preferred solution, but it once again appears that politics is the art of the possible. And a bird in the hand might be worth two in the bush. To put it more clearly: it is better to have a second-rate solution than no solution at all.
Mr President, this is just a brief statement to declare that I do not totally agree with the Maaten report either. Although I am well aware that we have a duty to give consumers all the relevant information regarding the risks presented by the products they use, I do not feel that it is our duty to adopt prohibitionist laws, particularly where third countries are concerned. The report contains excessive statements which are reminiscent of a certain type of terrorist propaganda which I do not feel would advance our awareness-raising operation, also because whenever we go to extremes in these sectors and these fields we obtain the opposite effects to those desired.I would stress another point: I come from Italy, which is a Mediterranean country, and I would like to emphasise that the attempt to reduce subsidies for tobacco plantations is a very delicate issue. I would ask the Commission to think again for thousands of jobs are directly or indirectly jeopardised. There are a whole range of activities connected to the tobacco industry, which we must protect at all costs.
Mr President, the debate on the future of the cohesion policy is a very timely one. I wish to thank the Commission for its willingness to share this debate with Parliament and, at the same time, for the visits undertaken to Member States. They are very necessary.My concern is not just how regional policy can be made to work effectively both in the present Member States and in the countries that have applied for membership but also the continuation of structural policy in the present Member States in the next Structural Funds period. Structural Funds policy is currently managed in too cumbersome a manner. Now is a good time to consider, for example, how we might learn from the delay in the preparatory procedures for programmes for the next period. How can we become more effective, achieve better results and reduce bureaucracy? In this connection I would also like to enquire what the Commission’s position is regarding what enlargement means for the overall funding of structural policy. Is the Commission prepared to increase structural policy appropriations during the next Structural Funds period should the situation regarding European economic and social cohesion so demand?At the same time I would also like to communicate to the Commission that a funding model for enlargement is not acceptable where those having to pay would be the poor regions of the existing EU countries, where there are still lasting problems owing to difficult natural conditions, long distances or sparse populations. The EU must also show solidarity in the future so that new money with a new financial instrument can be found for the new challenges of structural policy, where those that pay would include those central regions that will be the first to benefit economically from enlargement.
Mr President, as many previous speakers have said, Sierra Leone offers the absolutely worst example of what happens when a country uses child soldiers. In our Finnish newspapers, we could read a week or two ago about an eighteen year-old girl who had been compulsorily recruited, had suffered an amputation and had been raped. She could see no future and no hope. For me, her story represents everything that is so horrific about the use of child soldiers and forces us to think about what we can do about this. We should also note that a third of the child soldiers who have been recruited in Sierra Leone are still mere girls.We should demand – and I hope that the Commission also does so – that the President should respect the agreement once entered into with Unicef. This means that Unicef should be allowed to work in the country in order to rehabilitate children who have suffered psychological damage. I believe that Unicef is the organisation which has far and away the greatest experience of this work. I therefore believe that, in the future, we should in every way support precisely this organisation, for it is psychological damage above all that the children are suffering from and which makes many of them want to return to the military forces. It is this that is one of the most serious threats for the future.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mr Jarzembowski, thank you for the work that you have done, but I will not support the compromise, because I see this compromise as lacking an essential link, namely that authorisations should be used in EU ports. We had approved this in Parliament at second reading, but it is not included in the compromise. A competent authority is entitled to apply for an authorisation, but it is not required to do so, and I see that as a key issue.Both at first and at second reading, I worked hard to improve the article on authorisations, even with the help of the Commissioner in a number of areas. Both at first and at second reading, we managed to improve this licensing system. Despite this, Mr Jarzembowski, I have a feeling that we could have gone a little further during conciliation, and that we perhaps should have spent all of our time creating a better text on that score too.I am, in any case, in favour of free port services. In my opinion, everyone should be able to offer their services there, but these free services should be counterbalanced by a licensing system which should be regulated in such a way that we can make our own demands in the areas of environment, public services and, last but not least, social legislation.In the Flemish ports, relations among dock workers, employers and dock installations have deteriorated a great deal over the past eighteen months. Whatever the result of next Thursday’s vote may be, this worsening situation will need to be addressed with or without a directive. I would therefore ask everyone involved to gather around the negotiating table in order to discuss the future of our ports and to ensure that it is not jeopardised, with or without a directive.(Applause)
Mr President, we must maintain the integrity of the Rome Statute and be instrumental in getting the International Criminal Court up and running as soon as possible. That is why it is unacceptable for the American Government to undermine the Court by trying to enter into bilateral agreements with EU countries or candidate countries.I am pleased that the Danish Presidency has worked hard to maintain a common EU position, and I am sorry that no such position has come about. The Council has to a large extent given in to American pressure, and I want, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, to call upon the national parliaments in the EU and in the candidate countries to keep a close eye on what their governments are doing so that the Rome Statute is not weakened.As is well known, the United States signed the statute, but has withdrawn its signature. I hope that the Council will embark upon a new dialogue with the American Government concerning the recognition of the International Criminal Court, which all the Member States and most of the candidate countries have now ratified.The EU and the United States share the same basic values. Both parties profess freedom and democracy and the defence of human rights and the principles of the rule of law. That is why the United States, which will be able to contribute in a particularly positive way to the Court and to the way it operates, should be among the signatories of the Rome Statute. Since 1998, the EU has tried to accommodate American anxieties in relation to certain provisions of the Statute, but its efforts have unfortunately been in vain.It is unfortunate, moreover, that the United States does not now intend to be a party to the statute which, as I say, it in fact signed during the Clinton administration. The United States’ decision is wrong, and we must all regret the American measures. We must therefore hope that the United States can be convinced to adopt a more positive line once the Criminal Court has in practice had the opportunity to show that it operates in accordance with the highest standards of the rule of law and does not allow itself to be misused for political purposes.
Mr President, I am grateful for the answer of the Commissioner. I think there is a bit of a difference from the situation in Nigeria because, as far as I recall from the newspapers, this mainly concerned bank accounts in Switzerland and some money was recovered there. But I am mainly thinking about physical properties in countries of the European Union, and probably also in the United States.Investigations could probably be made into what has been purchased in the last two years or so, and that could be recovered and this fact made public. Then the people in Zimbabwe could ask themselves: Where did the money come from? How were they able to do that? All those things in Europe are completely public and it just requires an official of the Commission to look into it and do some studies on it and then publish it.
Mr President, I too would like to thank the rapporteurs for their successful reports. In them, attention has been focused on factors that are essential for increased safety at sea. There is, however, still much to be done to improve safety at sea. It is important to tighten up regulations regarding the control of harbours and ports even further, and enhance its effectiveness. We also have to improve the way we approve classification societies and monitor their work, and expanded inspections must be carried out, in particular on high-risk vessels.I would also like to point out that it is not enough that the Union alone should find solutions to increase safety at sea. For example, questions of responsibility must be dealt with on a global basis. That also goes for the matter of double-hull design requirements. Rules applied regionally are not enough here either: we need global IMO agreements. For example, for Finland it is vitally important that Russia is included in these agreements. We must ensure that vessels that are no longer seaworthy and pose a risk actually are scrapped and are not brought back into service flying someone else’s flag.
How do you stay in power for 34 years in Africa? Opposition parties are banned or it is made impossible for them to function. Opponents who have or threaten to acquire support are put behind bars. The press is completely manipulated and anyone openly criticising the president winds up in a cell if he is lucky and six feet under if he is less fortunate. Mass demonstrations are mercilessly broken up. The political class consists entirely of slavish servants of the president as a result of a system of rewards and punishments. A ludicrous cult of personality is designed to give the Head of State a quasi-divine status. The French President, Mr Chirac, has to be hoodwinked to such an extent that he condemns Amnesty International instead of the human rights violations in Togo. The murdering of opponents of the regime goes unpunished.This is still unfortunately the familiar pattern in many African countries and we do not really know how to deal with it. Crude misuse of power hampers development and perpetuates poverty. The European Union quite rightly suspended aid as long ago as 1993, but the situation has not improved. On the contrary, the opposition leader and human rights campaigner, Mr Agboyibo, was thrown into jail for six months, for allegedly insulting the Prime Minister. In order to add force to his arguments his Excellency maintains a private army of 1 000 troops.Togo is asking for financial support to hold parliamentary elections in October. The question is whether or not we would then contribute to the organisation of a democratic farce, designed solely to give those in power a semblance of legitimacy. President Eyadema has announced that he will keep to the constitution and step down in 2003, but why should we believe someone who has lied for 34 years in order to stay in power?
Mr President, you are absolutely right but I was not fast enough. I was told that the boat was there last week, and the question was raised. We can debate it in September but it is unfortunate because the matter ought to have gone before the Council this week. I will be quicker next time!(Laughter)
Mr President, there has thankfully been a change in European Community law over the last 30 years from freedom of movement of persons being seen as purely an economic issue – functional mobility – to it being seen as a personal right. This has meant a lot of rhetoric about a citizen's Europe but not much change in the mentality or administrations of the Member States, as Mrs Wallis has pointed out.In saying that, I am not overlooking the economic benefits of free movement. Mrs Boumediene-Thiery's report points out – and I congratulate her for its quality – that facilitating mobility promotes dynamism and economic competitiveness. So why does the Right ignore this? But the real bottom line for Liberals is whether the Member States believe in and respect the notion of European citizenship, not only allowing the citizens of a Member State and their families to move around but also conferring such rights, to the greatest extent possible, on legally resident third-country nationals and their families – which unfortunately were not covered by the Commission report.It is very aggravating when the Council of Ministers and individual governments wring their hands about the low turnout in European elections, launch campaigns with balloons and plastic bags about people's Europe and seek to win citizens' votes in referendum campaigns, but still maintain obstructive red tape when those citizens have the cheek to assert their European legal right to move freely.Those rules are far too complicated anyway. We need a complete overhaul to streamline and make crystal clear the unimpeded exercise of free movement. It is not too much to ask. As Mrs Wallis said, it should be as easy for people to cross borders as it is for widgets or potatoes.
At present, drugs policy is not harmonised within the EU. Instead, each country devises its own policy. That does not, however, prevent the drugs issue from appearing high on the political agenda. Ever younger people are misusing drugs, and more and more young people see no danger in trying cannabis. Even what are termed party drugs, that is to say the most dangerous synthetic drugs of all, are becoming more widespread. In a Europe without borders, we are in danger of having ever greater drugs problems as the legalisation of drugs extends beyond the Netherlands. Many appear already to have given up the fight for a drugs-free Europe.It deserves to be repeated that there is a link between the number of people who try drugs and the number of people who are in danger of getting hooked on their misuse. The possession and use of drugs must therefore remain criminal offences. The wrong signals are still being sent out to the young people of Europe when anyone can buy five grams of cannabis at a so-called coffee shop. We must not be satisfied with this Framework Decision, but must continue to strive for a drugs-free Europe.We say no. We do not wish to legalise, we do not wish to liberalise and we have not given up the dream of zero tolerance for drugs.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, employment is the key instrument in counteracting social exclusion. That is why this is, in my view, such an important item on the EU's agenda. I should like to thank Mr Schmid and Mr Mann warmly for the critical eye they have cast over five years of European employment strategy.It is of crucial importance to us in Parliament to have our voices heard now, particularly because it is reported that the Commission will be producing a proposal for employment guidelines in 2003. I, for my part, should like to make the following observations.In its report, the Commission admits unhesitatingly that the European employment strategy cannot take all the credit for the increase in employment over the past couple of years. This worries me greatly, because at present, we are clearly heading for a recession, and this is exactly a time when we need an effective strategy. If, therefore, it is not clear whether the policy works, is it useful to retain this strategy? The question also arises as to what exactly the European Union's role is. Is it a matter of subsidiarity? It is therefore high time sound indicators were developed and the statistics were updated more effectively. Only then can we really discern what works and what does not. In the meantime, it is a fateful sign that the Court of Auditors will, on Friday, have very critical things to say about the EU's local employment projects in terms of the objectives, how they are monitored, and the inspection of financial resources.And then there are women. From the Commission communication, it appears that older employees and women still get a rough deal in the area of employment. Although over the past five years, employment for women has increased by 4.3% to 54.9% – a very minor increase after all – the jobs involved are mainly part-time and without any real prospects. The glass ceiling may have become a little more fragile, but it is still in place. However, it is of course completely unacceptable that wage differences still amount to an average of 16%. In addition, one of the main headaches for the working woman is combining family with work. Although Member States have paid increasing attention to parental leave and childcare over the past few years, I think that more is needed. In many Member States, the public is struggling with the notion that the husband can also apply for parental leave. The househusband is viewed with suspicion. I think it is up to the Union to try to change this. In terms of best practices, I believe that a country such as Sweden can certainly be held up as an example.Finally, the older employee too is still given too little consideration. Lifelong learning often passes them by, while this is, in fact, very important. It is extremely important, in my view, to develop a sound, effective and verifiable strategy, certainly in the light of the pending enlargement.
Mr President, in 1999, the turnover in the European Union for vitamins and minerals alone was over EUR 1 600 million, even without taking other food supplements into account. That just shows how fashionable these products have become, which is quite natural, when all is said and done. The wish to be and to stay healthy is probably the most widely shared one. Every day, then, millions of European citizens take thousands of pills, capsules and tablets. It also shows how urgent is the need for regulation of this market in Europe, a market which is expanding rapidly, lacks transparency, and, above all, varies greatly from one Member State to another, as has been noted. The differences are sometimes quite considerable and concern areas such as product composition, dosage, and criteria relating to purity, labelling or the required approval procedure.We must, therefore, fill these gaps so that we can protect consumers, so that they are extremely well briefed and as clearly informed as is possible, while enabling the free movement of goods within the European Union, as, I am sure, everyone will agree. When voting on Mrs Müller’s excellent report, on which we must congratulate her, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy included vitamins and minerals in the definition of food supplements, as well as other substances listed in the annexes. We welcome this contribution. Our aim was to ensure that, in the long term, the directive would cover all the food supplements already on the European market, so that European consumers can enjoy the same safety guarantees.In the same spirit, our group tabled three additional amendments, Amendments Nos 33, 34 and 35. Amendments with the same effect were also tabled by the Group of the, seeking to ensure that the scope of the directive includes substances that have physiological effects, i.e. non-nutritional substances which are nonetheless vital to a person’s well-being. Fibre, which is known to aid digestion, in the same way as plant extracts, is included. I would like to point out that this proposal was already included in the text of the French Presidency and is currently in that of the Swedish Presidency. The very reason that we are here today is to create a legal framework in order to harmonise the sale of these food supplements.We should not create a legal void in Europe with regard to ingredients which have physiological functions. There are millions of consumers who would find that incomprehensible.
Mr President, this debate is about much more than our view of human genetics: it also about the role we assign ourselves as European politicians in the assessment of ethics, science and the integrity of the European citizen.I have no monopoly on truth and I believe that it behoves us to show humility. Citizens are quite capable of taking their own decisions honourably and conscientiously. Personally, I am in favour of scientific research that is as free as possible, with the possible prospect of a cure for hitherto incurable diseases like Parkinson’s, diabetes and cardiovascular disease, although in the latter case you can, of course, simply stop smoking.The work of our committee has shown that European science treats its responsibility conscientiously. I cannot square with my conscience the fact that we do not support and in some cases even ban the types of research under discussion, including therapeutic cloning and stem cell research using residual embryos. Of course, others reach different conclusions and I respect that, but we should take note of the fact that different Member States will arrive at different legislation.Therefore I find myself unable to support the motion before us, if it remains unchanged.
Mr President, I was struck today by an article in The Wall Street Journal; the subtitle read: 'Why do America and Europe differ on the importance of consumer interests?' It went on to say, from a US point of view: 'when it comes to putting the consumer at the center of its economic model, Europe remains stubbornly old-fashioned.' E-commerce, of all types, still lags behind in Europe. By 2005, 11% of US retail sales will be online, only 6+% in western Europe. Our hope must be that this Commission initiative for a European Extra-Judicial Network will help build consumer e-confidence and force those European figures up. These were the problems that we wrestled with during the passage of the Brussels regulation: how to allow Europe's consumers access to cross-border justice without over-burdening business and yet, at the same time, exposing business to necessary competitive forces.We must be clear that this is an attempt to deal with a large number of low-value cross-border consumer disputes, outside the normal legal system. Alternative means that almost replace the lower end of our traditional court systems will be introduced. This is a very ambitious project, and such an exercise needs to be seriously undertaken and properly funded. One of my greatest concerns about this initiative is its funding, both substantively and in terms of its publicity. Our citizens know where their local courts are, but will they know how or where to access the EEJ Net? From what I have seen, I am not over-optimistic.Secondly, is the system coherent and efficient? At the moment, progress is very variable in the different Member States. The Commission must get tough in this respect, hence our suggestion of a service-level agreement with each clearing-house. Only such an arrangement will ensure that our citizens get the service that they really deserve.This brings me to the amendments. We can happily accept Amendments Nos 2 and 3, but we have grave concerns about Amendment No 1. Not to allow the clearing-houses to give legal advice flies in the face of reality. Some of the centres already operating as Euroguichets, have trained lawyers on their staff. They could not function without that. We cannot offer our citizens a second-rate service. Good legal advice, or knowledge, at the outset of a claim is essential if it is not to veer off in the wrong direction, causing aggravation, disappointment and denial of justice.Lastly, let us turn to the legislative method, ADR and the EEJ Net, are examples of soft law or co-regulation. If this is the way of the future, it is important that Parliament be fully involved from start to finish. For example, most of us would applaud the other sectoral initiative in this field, the FIN Net dealing with financial services for instance, but when was this initiative referred to Parliament? If we are replacing or enhancing our legal system and access to justice, these issues are key to civil society and they cannot and must not be tackled without the input of democratically elected Members.
Mr President, on behalf of the  Group I would like to congratulate the Commission, and Commissioner Bolkestein in particular, on his efforts to try to reach agreement with the United States on such a difficult matter. My Group regrets that he has not been more successful in persuading the United States to respect our concerns about data privacy. My Group cannot agree on the choice of legal basis. While, as Mr Bolkestein says, the agreement does not formally amend our data protection directive, it clearly amends the law as it applies to European Community citizens by making us subject to US law in this area, and the absence of protection in US law is precisely our concern.There is a huge democratic deficit when the Commission comes forward with a proposal like this and does not give either the European Parliament or national parliaments the chance to say yes or no. Now, as Mr Bolkestein informs us, that the information being passed to the United States' authorities may be passed on to third country authorities, we should be seriously concerned.There have been three debates and votes in this House on the matter. Three committees have examined it and all recommended a referral to the Court of Justice. My Group does not seek a dispute with the Commission. We have asked the Commission to withdraw this proposal and to try to negotiate with the Americans and present to us and the US Congress a full-blown international agreement to cover these issues so that we can effectively fight terrorism together while respecting our commitments to data privacy. We would prefer the Commission to do that, but if the Commission cannot do it, perhaps at least at its meeting tomorrow the Commission could agree to take the initiative in referring the matter to the Court of Justice to decide whether there is adequacy.
Madam President, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, I shall support Mr Barón Crespo’s proposal.
Mr President, Commissioner, there are many endangered stocks world–wide. We in Scotland know how painful it is for the fishing industry when crisis conditions are reached, but we cannot solve problems in the EU by exporting them. We must seek responsible and sustainable fisheries everywhere. The  would like to thank Mrs Miguélez Ramos for her hard work on the dossier; we find particularly valuable the stress that is placed on the need to secure greater compliance with international law and for improved measures against illegal and unreported fishing.In this context we agree that the Commission must be resourced in a way that allows it to play a fuller role in regional fisheries organisation. We have, however, regularly expressed our concern on two issues. First, our fisheries activity at international level, and in particular any agreements reached directly with third countries, must be made compatible with our development policy. Secondly, the cost of the external dimension of the CFP is already approaching a third of its total budget. This cost is likely to increase if we are serious about fuller participation in regional fisheries organisations and about securing greater compliance with international law.It has already been said that each euro invested from public funds generates another three in business terms. In these circumstances it seems only appropriate that those vessel owners who benefit from third–country agreements should take on a fairer share of the financial burden involved. The  amendments address these developmental and financial concerns. We hope that the House will support them and that such issues will be given much fuller consideration in the debate on the recent Commission communication on fisheries agreements with third countries.
Madam President, I should like to congratulate the Council and the Commission on the progress made at Tampere in so many areas and I would like to associate myself with the remarks made earlier by my Liberal Democrat colleague Baroness Ludford.In the short time I have available I would like to touch on two issues. The first is the position of non-nationals, the many millions of our fellow human beings not citizens of the Union but either legally resident here or being offered asylum. I welcome some of the progress that was made at Tampere: for instance, on giving them comparable rights and on the fight against racism and xenophobia. If we are talking about creating an area of freedom, security and justice, however, we must recognise that these are the people to whom justice is most regularly denied. They are still too often associated with criminals. Racist urban youths are a social embarrassment but racist policemen are a major social hazard.I welcome legal aid and greater information to citizens on legal systems and I recognise that progress can be made on mutual recognition of judicial decisions. Nonetheless, we need common high standards of judicial competence and I hope that we will see more work done in this area. We need protection of victims and the right to compensation; but we also need a recognition of the rights of defendants if we are to live in a decent society.The second point I would like to touch on is the involvement of citizens. The President-in-Office made much of the increased efficiency and transparency that Tampere has brought. He talked about this being key if the Union is to win the trust of its citizens. He talked of “opening up” the Council to public scrutiny and looking at other reforms. He hoped that the Finnish presidency would leave a lasting impression on the Union in this regard.As chairman of the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, I would like to suggest to the President-in-Office that more recognition be given to the role of this Parliament in dealing with citizens. The European Parliament could have been invited at a working level to many more of the debates surrounding the Tampere summit. The presidency could have sent a representative to our committee to come and talk about the results of that summit. Does the presidency recognise the legitimacy of the European Parliament or is it somehow running scared of our participation? I have a message for the presidency: relax – come and discuss with us. I hope we will be able to prove to you through our work in the body that will draw up the Charter of Fundamental Human and Social Rights that the presidency and Parliament can work very well together.I hope that, as we proceed in this area where so often Parliament must work directly with the Council, we will see much more effective cooperation between us. I hope we will move from the somewhat stilted process of government by summit to more government at working level.(Applause)
Mr President, I too have voted in favour of the Stenmarck report. This report makes it abundantly clear that more than one third of our budget disappears into the ridiculous travelling circus between the three chairs of the European Parliament. The costs, however, are not only financial. Needless to say, it is a total nightmare from an organisational point of view too. The French Government has decided that Air France should not operate any direct flights between Amsterdam and Strasbourg, so to get here is a disaster on its own. It is apparently possible to build a TGV to Disneyland but not to Strasbourg. The biggest problem with the travelling circus, however, is political. As Parliament, we must monitor the Commission and the Council, but they are based in Brussels. This simply undermines our political credibility, and we must settle this matter as an absolute priority. Needless to say, we should try to do this before the enlargement, for then we will still be able to give the French something else by way of compensation. I am prepared to strike a good deal on this. The Convention should now make this a priority, so that this ridiculous travelling circus is done away with.
My VVD delegation was and is in favour of the enlargement of the European Union by the addition of the twelve countries with which we are currently negotiating, particularly for historic, economic and politico-strategic reasons (such as, among other things, stability along the eastern border and democracy throughout Europe). We are voting for the accession of Malta, Slovenia, Estonia, Lithuania, Latvia, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary and Poland.The big bang was an unjust procedure that put unnecessary pressure on the internal cohesion of the Union as well as on the objective assessment of the candidate Member States. We must not choose this way again in future, not even with a small bang. Every candidate Member State must be evaluated on its own merits. As soon as Bulgaria and Romania are ready, they must accede without having to wait for the others. As far as we are concerned, therefore, accession before or after 2007 is indeed possible.With regard to the accession of other countries such as Croatia or Turkey, the institutional form of the European Union will first have to be adapted (efficiency, transparency and democratic control) before they can be considered. No promises can therefore be made until the Intergovernmental Conference has been brought to a satisfactory conclusion.
Mr President, the own-initiative report by our fellow Member Mrs Mann makes a particularly interesting contribution to the fascinating debate on the relationship between regionalism and multilateralism. I am very much in favour of the multilateral approach, but I also remain convinced that regionalism and multilateralism can strengthen and supplement each other in many respects. I agree with the rapporteur when she says that the European Union must also continue to support and promote regional cooperation and integration in the future, therefore. In addition, the idea of using the establishment of free trade areas as instruments of development seems to me to be a very interesting train of thought, provided that they form part of a general package of reform measures. I should like to point out, however, that, for the benefit of the developing countries, we have to beware of ending up in an inextricable tangle of regional and multilateral initiatives. In my view, today the multilateral approach still deserves to take priority over regional initiatives. In other words, the top priority of the European Union must at this moment be the successful conclusion of the Doha Development Agenda. The discussion on regionalism and multilateralism, as important as it is, must be postponed until then. In any case, Mrs Mann’s report constitutes an interesting contribution to this, and for this I thank her.
Mr President, the Vatican is not immediately known for its progressive view of sexuality. Not only does contraception give women throughout the world control over their own bodies, but condoms could also save the lives of tens of thousands of people in the African countries hit by AIDS. The Vatican opposes such measures. It is also trying to stop women who have been raped in Bosnia, for example, from having access to abortions. Against this background, it is extremely shocking to study the report showing how Catholic priests have committed acts of cruelty and actually raped nuns and other women. This is something the Vatican has known about since 1994, but it has tried to play down what has happened and silenced the women when they have tried to speak out or been forced to have abortions. A number of them have also reportedly been infected with AIDS. This is no isolated incident. It has happened in at least 23 countries, and there is only one word to summarise what has happened, and that – emphatically – is ‘disgraceful’. The Vatican must lose no time in punishing those responsible, apologise to the women affected, investigate properly what happened and publish the report in its entirety.
Mr President, the gap with the poorest countries is widening instead of narrowing. Over the past decade, aid to developing countries has fallen by 24% and that to the poorest by as much as 45%. This is absolutely unacceptable. The UN Conference is pointless if it remains bogged down in fine promises and vague declarations. The poorest countries only benefit from concrete and binding agreements. Trade concessions on their own are not sufficient. The rich countries must ease their burden of debt by a substantial amount. Repayment means that in many countries, any form of development is frustrated even before it gets off the ground. It is of the utmost importance that we should pursue a separate discharge policy for each developing country individually.It is entirely reasonable to prescribe conditions in our debt and aid policy with regard to the fight against poverty, sound administration and sound management of public finance. Debt relief has no meaning if debts keep mounting up. The European Commission’s policy should therefore be aimed at developing capacity and sensible financial management. Only then can countries develop education and health care; only then can investments be stimulated.In many of the poorest developing countries, power, as well as available resources, are very badly distributed. If political and economic power are not distinctly separated, only corruption can reign supreme. It is hopeless to fight poverty if countries remain trapped in violent conflict. Let us call a spade a spade: tyranny and unbounded greed on the part of irresponsible leaders are just as important in terms of causing inadequate development as is a drop in aid. The chasm between rich and poor can only be bridged if our aid effort is stepped up considerably and if the countries are better governed.
Mr President, Commissioner, I should like to begin by thanking Mr Maat of the Group of the European People’s Party and Mr Kindermann of the Group of thefor what was unusually constructive and fruitful cooperation in the Committee. There was, of course, overwhelming interest in this report, such that no less than 135 amendments were tabled. We jointly made these into 10 compromise amendments adopted by a very large majority of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. I should also like to thank the Commission and the Swedish Presidency for their very constructive cooperation.The Commission’s proposal, which forms the basis for the measures concerned, contains many good features, but I do not think that it is sufficiently far-reaching. What I do not see are common rules for European farmers competing in a single internal market. Animal welfare and the needs of pigs are of course one and the same, whether the pigs concerned are in the north or the south. Naturally, there are differences in temperature, but that only, of course, increases the need for overhead sprays, for harmonised rules concerning ventilation and for very good training for all EU farmers. I also think we are obliged to adopt common rules for European farmers and that we must not only ever talk about minimum rules. That is also, of course, what the Commission has proposed. It is clear to everyone that the different Member States do not attach equal importance to animal welfare, and it is therefore necessary for ourselves here in Parliament, together with the Commission, to decide that these concerns should be raised jointly. Otherwise, it will be possible justly to accuse us of not complying with our own decisions. The fact that we in Europe make high demands in terms of animal welfare makes our European pig breeders less competitive than producers outside the EU. In order to meet this problem and in order to ensure that consumers have clear and lucid information about products that witness to a high standard of animal welfare, the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development would request the Commission to take initiatives to produce common rules for the labelling of pork that complies with these high standards.I have a lot of sympathy for the amendments tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy about introducing an import ban on products from third countries which do not comply with those standards we require. However, that is, of course, the same as proposing, or supporting the idea of, a trade war, and that is something I do not think we should do. It is therefore a problem that the Commission should solve under the aegis of the WTO. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development would also ask the Commission to prepare a report on the situation regarding implementation of the existing directives from 1991, for it is of course not only a question of fair competition in the world market but also, to a large extent, of fair competition in the internal market.The Member States send information about the directive to the Commission, but we are not given this information here in Parliament. The Commission ought now to gather the information and present it in a report explaining how the directive has been implemented, just as, this afternoon, we heard Commissioner Byrne provide a clear explanation of progress where animal transport is concerned. It could well be that the Commission appreciates the need for common rules, such as those within the transport area. I am very much looking forward to the Commission’s relevant proposals, which we expect to receive in October of this year. It is now, therefore, the Commission’s task to look after the interests of European farmers in the forthcoming WTO negotiations. As has been said, the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development proposes partly solving this problem by introducing a common welfare-marking system. It is, of course, obvious that every time European pig producers have a cost imposed upon them, it is not imposed upon our competitors, then we may be in danger of losing market shares.The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development also wants the Commission to propose rules for keeping pigs outdoors, now that the rules governing intensive pig rearing are soon to be in place. We also have a duty to have definite rules adopted governing other pigs. More and more pigs are kept outdoors, and it is therefore necessary to secure common rules governing access to mud baths and shade and any other facilities relevant to keeping pigs outdoors. We have also tightened up the rules on training. It ought quite simply to be a requirement for farmers to have practical and theoretical training so that they are able to look after their animals responsibly. Like the introduction of overhead sprays, this tightening-up of the rules provides for animals’ greater welfare, and these matters are very, very important.
Mr President, I would also like to pay tribute to the work of Commissioner Vitorino over the last five years. He really has been a splendid Commissioner for Justice and Home Affairs. I hope we will see more of him, not least because he would help us achieve in justice and home affairs the equivalent of the Lisbon objective to make Europe the most dynamic and competitive economy in the world. Why do we not have a parallel formal objective, perhaps the Tampere objective, to make the enlarged European Union the international beacon of human rights, protection of civil liberties and keeping people safe?In justice and home affairs there is not the same sense of zeal from ministers about promoting freedom as about promoting security. Security is an aspect of freedom because no-one who is unsafe is free, but freedom is also an element in security and no-one is secure if their privacy is invaded or they are wrongly imprisoned or subject to discrimination. But the Council has failed to speak out against Guantanamo Bay internment and is trying to impose an agreement with the US on air passenger data transfers in breach of European data protection laws. It has also allowed restrictions on freedom of movement, as my Hungarian colleague has said.In the accession treaties there is a JHA safeguard clause, but it is focused exclusively on monitoring implementation of mutual recognition measures and framework decisions in criminal law. There is no clause which will check whether asylum seekers are being left destitute, equal rights are being denied to gay and lesbian people, or ethnic minority people are being abused. We must have a mechanism of ongoing peer review whereby we have mutual monitoring of the quality of Member States' justice systems.On immigration we need much better management in the future. Member States have agreed most of the common asylum policy, but have lowered standards of protection to do so. Very little is agreed for streamlining the red tape for legal migrants and there is an alarming absence of progressive and active engagement in how to respect diversity and have imaginative integration policies.The ceremony of raising the ten new flags yesterday was wonderful and moving, but the image it presented was exclusively white. In my city, one-third of the population is from ethnic minorities. We have to do better to serve our whole population with just and inclusive policies.
We have abstained from voting for Jan Andersson’s report on a coordinated strategy for modernising social security.We are basically well disposed towards the European Union. As Swedish Liberals, we see European integration as an opportunity to find solutions to cross-border problems such as the environment, trade, movement across borders, human rights and conflict management. In these areas, Europe’s democracies have a chance to show the world that cooperation leads to peace and increased prosperity.We also believe in the principle of subsidiarity whereby decisions are to be taken as close as possible to those they affect. That is why we are actively pursuing the issue of a constitution for the European Union where the distribution of responsibilities is clear for all to see. It must be perfectly clear to all citizens that the EU will only become involved in those issues it is best qualified to deal with, which is to say cross-border issues. All other questions ought to be dealt with at local, regional or national levels.Social policy is an example of an area in which the EU ought only to have limited powers, except where it is a question of freedom of movement for people within the Union. Each Member State ought to have full responsibility for, and the right autonomously to decide upon, its social security systems. Health care, child care and care of the elderly are clear examples of areas which are not obviously transnational. The same applies to labour market policy. We do not believe that common European legislation in these areas is a solution to the problems involved in designing systems of social security. For us, it is important that the EU should instead concentrate on just a few areas in which it can really be of use. That does not, however, prevent the Member States from cooperating and exchanging ideas in the social sphere.Equality and social security are issues which are traditionally high on our Liberal agenda. We wholeheartedly support, at national level, many of the ideas presented in Mr Andersson’s report.
Mr President, a year ago, the current NATO General Secretary, George Robertson, described the task in Kosovo clearly and succinctly in the following terms: 'The objective is to get the Serbs out, NATO in and the Albanians home'. It was successful and a victory for justice and human rights. I was there before the war began. At that time, the Serbs had already driven 200 000 to 300 000 people from their homes and had ravaged and laid waste whole areas of the country. And I was there again a couple of weeks ago and can testify to the enormous change for the better which has occurred thanks to NATO’s intervention. I can also testify to the incredibly efficient work being done by KFOR, the UN mission (UNMIK) and the UNMIK police. I can, unfortunately, also testify to what the debate here ought especially to be about, namely the fact that it is now the Serbs who are being persecuted by people who act with spite towards them, throw stones at them, burn their houses down and attempt to drive them from their homes. Now, it is the Serbs who need our attention. The police are doing everything possible, but nothing like the promised number of police has arrived. The EU countries, in particular, have gone back on their promise. Only one fifth of the police force comes from EU countries. That is partly why the former liberation organisation, the KLA is all too easily able to engage in anti-Serbian and criminal activities, which presumably also include murder, arson and attempts to drive people from their homes. So, what is now needed may be expressed as succinctly as a year ago: the objective is to get the KLA out, the police in and the Serbs home to those places in which they have always lived in Kosovo. The KLA must be disarmed and stripped of any monopoly position in the coming election campaign. They must also be divested of the special privileges they have evidently been given when it comes to recruiting for the new police force. The KLA’s criminal activity must be brought to an end. The EU countries must send more police and judges. The Serbs must be helped to return home. Attempts must also be made to help groups of Serbs in Serbia itself. In turn, it must be absolutely clear that the election planned for October in Kosovo must be held, irrespective of whether the Kosovan Serbs boycott it, for what are especially needed are Albanians, who are accountable. At the moment, all Albanians have been turned into clients and can blame everyone else for terrorism, street fights etc. What we need is to arrange for the Albanian majority to be held accountable.
Mr President, I want to propose a technical oral amendment to Amendment No 28. I apologise for not spotting the technicality in committee.Amendment No 28 reads at present: 'The Community shall each year set a global ceiling for funding action under this Regulation.' As Commissioner Patten pointed out during the debate, it is not the 'Community' which sets the budgetary ceiling, it is the Budgetary Authority. I should like to propose orally that we delete the word 'Community' and insert instead the words 'Budgetary Authority', so that the amendment would now read: 'The Budgetary Authority shall each year set a global ceiling for funding action under this Regulation.'(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)***Report (A5-0338/2000) by Mrs Oomen-Ruijten, on behalf of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, on the situation of frontier workers [2000/2010(INI)]- After paragraph 2
Mr President, I should like to congratulate the rapporteur on the report. I can inform you that the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party will support the report when it is put to the vote.
Mr President, I too congratulate the High Representative, Mr Solana, and Commissioner Patten for their untiring work. We share your frustration at the lack of outcomes.Has the time come now for us to move on from dialogue and move into shared partnerships, overcoming perceived religious differences to tackle common human evils of poverty, ill health and illiteracy? Surely the place today for dialogue is within Islam, between Muslim and Muslim, to work out ways of discarding false jihads, rejecting distorted interpretations of the Koran that lead inevitably to misguided martyrdoms and terrorist assaults. Islam is a faith that promotes peace, equality and a secure life.Meanwhile we should tackle the lack of democracy in the oil-rich states. Here we can assist through building civil society and use means such as our association agreement with Egypt to exert undoubted influence.High Representative Solana mentioned the Islamic Republic of Iran. My view is his as well. I believe we should open a Commission office in Tehran as soon as possible. This is an Islamic state, and yet a democracy; it has Sharia law, and yet a parliament. Surely Iran is part of the solution rather than part of the problem – a peaceful society in a violent region. I thank our Commissioner and our High Representative and their staff for all their work.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with this decision, Europe is responding to the concerns of its citizens about food safety, in its widest sense, prioritising the protection of health against disease, poisoning, swindles, scandals, and the new frontiers of science. However, in creating the Authority two precautions must be taken: first, bureaucratisation and centralising tendencies must be avoided; secondly, Europe has already been accused of wanting to wipe out typical and traditional products by applying rules on hygiene and health, processing and conservation, right up to the moment of consumption, which are unsuitable, rigid and excessive, valid for the sterile, standardised products of big business but not appropriate for quality products linked to a locality, like those of my own Aosta Valley and the rest of the Alps – cheese, sausages and so on. To suppose that it is possible, in the mountains, to imitate the big dairies and slaughterhouses of the lowlands increases mistrust of Europe. Let that be a warning to the Authority!
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I wish, on behalf of my group, to congratulate Mr Musotto on his report, which calls attention to some pertinent matters.The measures to achieve economic balance have been insufficient: they have been heading in the right direction, but they have been insufficient. Regional and social differences in terms of prosperity have even increased in the present Member States. In future we must pay attention to strengthening rural vitality and diversity in regions which are unfavourable in terms of geographical location and natural conditions. Additional costs resulting from difficult conditions, for example in island regions and mountain areas, must be compensated for with combined efforts and precisely defined regional policy measures. Furthermore, the sharp disparities in unemployment rates and structural problems must be taken seriously in planning regional structural policy. The commitment of SMEs and skills and know-how to projects is an important priority. Aid action under the Structural Funds must also be better coordinated with national employment targets.GNP alone is inadequate as a criterion in determining eligible areas. We have to equally consider permanent problems associated with climatic and geographical conditions. For example, extremely sparsely populated areas, long journey times, and cold and hot climates mean additional costs, which will also be there after enlargement. An effective cohesion policy requires that sufficient financing is safeguarded. There are actually rather different views in my group regarding how that can be addressed. Whatever the case, it is important to have improved coordination between the various forms of aid granted out of the funds available.The enlargement of the Union requires a reinforced cohesion policy. Enlargement must not go ahead at the expense of the worse-off regions, but through joint efforts. It is important to ensure that all the Union’s resources are spent effectively, and that includes the most remote regions. We have to ensure together that the whole area of the Union is included in the single market and derives benefit from it. For that reason, cooperation with the peripheral areas is more important than ever.
Mr President, in the vast majority of cases I am prepared to support a compromise for the common good of the EU and to listen and form impressions, but definitely not today. Ladies and gentlemen, you need to know that there are two clear policies in the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party. There is a limit to compromise, and one that Mrs Buitenweg has grossly exceeded. There is no reason whatsoever for demanding changes or a review of the UN conventions on drugs. It is not the conventions that are at fault. Instead, it is unwillingness on the part of the Member States to get to grips with increasing drug problems.To those fellow MEPs – and there are some even in my own group – who say that I am inflexible and do not appreciate the importance of changes, I would say that, inflexible I may be, but I am also aware of what is behind this resolution. This is, of course, emphatically about politics, Mr Evans. You do not need to be Einstein to appreciate that. A visit the other day to the red-light district in Amsterdam convinced me even more, for it is a fact, Mr Evans, that those who are keen to review the UN conventions are the same persons who want to legalise and liberalise drugs policy. Mr Cappato’s rhetoric does not therefore ring in the least bit true. We know what he is after. We also know what Mrs Buitenweg wants, namely to legalise both soft and hard drugs.Do not forget that those of us here in this Chamber are the representatives of millions of Europeans. More than a million people have signed what is termed the Vienna Declaration, rejecting any undermining of the UN conventions. Ladies and gentlemen, the signals we must send to Vienna and to all the young people of Europe, including those sitting here and applauding, are: no, we do not want legalisation; no, we do not want liberalisation. No we have not given up the fight for a drugs-free Europe. You should reject the resolution.
Madam President, when we discussed this last week in the Conference of Presidents, my group – the Liberal Democrats – voted to have a debate today and not to postpone it. I regret that my remarks today will mostly be about process rather than content, because I think that we still have not found the correct process. I would, however, like to salute the work the Commission has done this year and to acknowledge the enormous progress in the preparation of the launch of the euro; the very substantial progress on enlargement which we very much welcome; the work which is being done in south-eastern Europe; the break-through on the World Trade Organisation and the very stimulating programme on sustainable development. All of those and the work on the common area of justice and security are to the credit of the Commission. I very much agree with the focus of next year's priorities which are sensible and acceptable, particularly in that we need to work closely together on promoting the Community method in building the future of Europe.There are, however, questions in the legislative programme to which we need answers. Why last year was only 45% of the programme processed by this time of the year and 55% not? How is it that 117 or 118 new items not foreseen were added? I do not mind flexibility – that is good in politics – but this seems rather more chaotic than one's definition of flexibility.I fully respect the Commission's right of initiative, but I would urge that the Commission should not simply start in February with a general statement of priorities and then, in November, bring forward a specific work programme. We need an intensive dialogue between times and some intermediate staging-posts at which to make evaluations.We believe, Mr President of the Commission, like you, in good governance and this Parliament will commit itself to being a high quality player in terms of the input and impact on co-legislation, but that requires criteria. We need to discuss with each other – and this is not an attempt to interfere with the right of initiative of the Commission – is the law necessary? Is it proportionate? Does it respect subsidiarity? Is it transparent and accountable? What are the options for implementation? Can we do some kind of regulatory impact assessment before we go down the line?The Commission already has a wonderful process of consultation in place with social partners. Share this process with us as well, not because we want to interfere with your right to make the final call, but because we too are players and we cannot be left to one side or not get documents till the eve of a debate. Our President has communicated to you a scheme that we would commend. Our Conference of Presidents backs what she has said. Our Committee on Constitutional Affairs backs what she has said and if we can do that, next year we will discuss politics more and process less. We have got to get it right. We have to do this early to avoid a repetition of this unnecessary mutual incomprehension which helps none of us to bring good governance to the European Union.(Applause)
Mr President, the Union is faced with major tasks and its further development depends to a great extent on what we do here and now. Enlargement to include the countries of Eastern and Central Europe is the biggest challenge in the Community’s history, and if we do not tackle the issue correctly now, we are putting a lot at risk. It is extremely important that we explain to the Union’s citizens, and the citizens of the candidate countries, what the Union stands for. An information and communication strategy must, therefore, be high on our agenda. I am looking forward with great interest to hearing your answer, Commissioner Reding, because I know that information is also of great interest to you: an interest which we share, moreover, because we are both journalists by profession. I believe that we also have the same interest in the Union’s communication and information activities being organised in as close proximity to the citizens as possible and in our applying the policy so that the various groups in society get the information which they most need.The keywords are coordination – partly when it comes to sharing information between the Commission and the Parliament – decentralisation, targeting and optimum exploitation of the available information technology. I am curious as to how the Commission will go about the task. I imagine that the Commission’s offices in the major European cities will be involved and that they will be assigned tasks and responsibilities and given resources to contact and inform the public at large. The experts, the authorities and those who are genuinely interested in the EU should not have problems getting information, and I must admit that I am a little sceptical when I hear about an 'interinstitutional' library in Brussels or similar central functions. I would much rather that the Commission’s office in Copenhagen was a little more accessible. It is the Commission’s local offices, in cooperation with Parliament’s local offices, which must meet the man on the street, the man who always thinks that Brussels is so extremely far away. He must understand that Brussels means all of us together, as Commission President Prodi put it. It is a very difficult task because, in my opinion, the gap between the citizens and the institutions is wide, and with the major challenges which the Union is facing the task will become no less great. Enlargement, the Commission’s ambitious 5-year plan, the Commission’s plans for reform, the Intergovernmental Conference: there is a lot to provide information about, and I think that this is an urgent matter. I believe that you share many of my views, Mrs Reding.
Mr President, the Commission proposal on guidelines for employment policies in 2000 does not really add anything new as compared with previous documents. Nevertheless, it does contain some really crucial points, in particular on information systems and the policies facilitating the transfer of these systems to labour. It is also right to emphasise, as do Amendments 2 and 3 to Guidelines 1 and 2, that long-term unemployment cannot be fought effectively with State subsidies.I would also like to emphasise three limits which we still have to resolve concerning employment policies that the Commission proposal does not adequately address. First of all, there is still not enough attention being given to small and medium-sized industry, which has other problems apart from an excessive tax burden, which is typical of large industry too.Moreover, the document does not even mention the role of an active credit policy intended to support firms – the European credit system is still light-years away from the American system in this regard – and I think that the endeavours of the European Union and the Member States to redirect it have, until now, been very weak.Finally, the main shortcoming of these documents concerns the definition of the role of the regions and local authorities in an active labour policy. If we continue to think in terms of macroeconomic planning and we do not start instead with conciliation at local level and between administrators, trade unions and entrepreneurs in establishing concrete development plans based on actual resources, then we will never address the root of the employment problem. To this end, Amendment No 15 to Guideline 12 is important, but still not sufficient.
The vote which has just taken place in this Chamber is a historic one for it is the first time we have ever debated the internal political situation of one of our Member States with such anxiety.I believe there are circumstances when the question of principles and institutional regulations is obliterated. I urge the Council and the Council Presidency to continue to protect the fundamental values of the Union. I urge the Commission to be less cautious.In this resolution, Parliament is assuming its responsibilities. Having said that, in my opinion, the resolution adopted today is the absolute minimum, the very least we could do.Personally I argued in favour of a rather harder line, and I supported Amendments Nos 1, 4, 6, 7 and 8, as well as the oral amendment tabled by the Socialist Group.In fact I consider it essential for the Council to accept only purely technical relations with the representatives of an Austrian Government which includes members of the Austrian Freedom Party. Including Jörg Haider’s party in a coalition government makes the presence of the extreme right an everyday fact of life in Europe, and sets an extremely dangerous precedent which may generate a serious aftermath in other Union Member States or in candidate countries. The Austrian People’s Party must accept some historical responsibility for this.It is our fundamental values which are at stake here. As the democratically elected representatives of the European people, we have no choice. We must reject what is unacceptable, as our constituents demand. Because, when the spectre of barbarism resurfaces, failure to oppose is tantamount to capitulation.
Mr President, Mr Solana and Mr Kinnock, it is very good that we are having this debate. It is a very complex issue, and developments are taking place so quickly that the situation is changing almost from one day to the next. This means that any resolution becomes obsolete extremely quickly.The Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party really appreciates the efforts you are making, Mr Solana, towards uniting the EU around a single policy. The Greek Presidency shares this ambition. It is no easy task. At the same time, it is very clear that the EU is not united. In all facets of the Iraq issue we have heard differing views from different capital cities. I dare say that it has never before been so evident that the EU has failed in developing a common foreign and security policy. For all the fine words and the rhetoric, we stand empty-handed; which is terribly tragic.It might be possible to compensate for this if we start now to make attempts to reach agreement on a strategy for what we want to see happening after Saddam Hussein, whether or not there is a war. What should be done with Saddam Hussein? What role should the EU play in the reconstruction process? How could peace, freedom, democracy and human rights be guaranteed for the people of Iraq, who have suffered for so long? How is the EU to help in improving the humanitarian situation, and how prepared are we to help the neighbouring countries with the refugees who are already pouring out of Iraq?It goes without saying that we all hope that a war can be avoided. It is obvious that the inspectors, under the leadership of Hans Blix and Mohamed ElBaradei, need more time. Iraq and Saddam Hussein are playing games with us; one cannot help feeling that they have something to hide. Iraq must pull itself together. It is Iraq’s own responsibility, not that of the UN, to prove that there are no weapons of mass destruction in the country. The question of war or peace lies in Iraq’s own hands.Our view is that the inspectors need more time, a view expressed by many others here. When they report to the Security Council again in a few weeks’ time, it will be the UN Security Council that will take decisions on what is to happen next. Any decisions on a military strike, which might unfortunately be necessary, must be taken by the UN. A unilateral US strike would be extremely unfortunate, not only with regard to its consequences for the region, but also because it would harm transatlantic relations a very, very long way into the future.Lastly, I must express my regret that individual MEPs are going to Baghdad on their own initiative. I am convinced that they are doing so with good intentions, but this will be exploited by the Iraqi dictator to reinforce the image of disharmony in the international community. Those who go there cannot influence Saddam Hussein: he has not shown himself to be open to argument. Instead, they run the risk of becoming his hostages and getting in the way of the work of the inspectors. It is of course up to individuals whether or not they decide to travel, but the European Parliament is in danger of looking extremely ridiculous on the international stage. I would advise strongly against making this journey.
I would like to thank Mr Zimmerling for his work on this complicated dossier. Although it was clear from his report that he got to the bottom of the issue, I as a Liberal fail to agree with him, because I believe that, where possible, legislation should be whittled down a minimum. In various Member States, it has transpired that resale right is superfluous and causes distortions on the internal market.Rendering this legislation compulsory would immediately and seriously harm Europe’s competitive position in terms of art compared to other markets, because resale right outside Europe is non-existent. This is why I am of the opinion that the international art market will move outside of Europe as a result of the directive.Finally, I believe that the present proposal does not offer any protection to young, fledgling artists in general, but only to a small group. By voting against this directive, my group would also like to give out a political signal that we should not waste our time laying down superfluous rules.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is becoming increasingly clear that problems relating to public health and to healthy food truly are European problems, world problems, and not just one Member State’s problems. For that very reason, support must be given to the efforts made by Member States such as Belgium, which is endeavouring to keep the consequences of the food contamination episode to a minimum and to guarantee safe and healthy food. I would even go as far as to say that these efforts must be continued at a European level.I consider there to be four priorities arising from the dioxin crisis experienced by my country and these are as follows: firstly, Belgium has set up a federal food agency which will become operational at the end of this year. I believe that the same course should be pursued at a European level, but that there is no need to set up a new body in the process. The work can be incorporated into the existing office in Dublin.Secondly, notwithstanding the European Veterinary Committee’s decision that it is no longer necessary for PCB tests to be carried out on Belgian meat, Belgium continues to carry out these tests on meat destined for export. I therefore believe that tests of this kind must take place throughout the European Union.Thirdly, supervision must be carried out on the basis of the same quality standards. It is not permissible for Member States to still be using different standards for ascertaining food quality. This distorts competition, which is to the detriment of those who play the game by the rules, if I can put it that way. European legislation must provide a quality labelling system and must ensure that tests and quality standards are the same throughout Europe.Lastly, a European financing system must be established. It is not acceptable for one Member State to bear the brunt financially for a crisis such as the dioxin crisis. There are a number of amendments to next year’s budget on the table that will be able to provide the necessary financial room for manoeuvre. We hope that these will be adopted during the next plenary session and that you, Mr Prodi, together with your Commission, will give it the legal basis it needs.
The adoption of the European Parliament resolution on the European Commission’s report on enlargement – the progress report – provides strong positive support for Europe and actively follows up the conclusions of the Laeken European Council of December 2001.This resolution provides a balanced view of the impact of enlargement on agriculture and small and medium-sized businesses and industries.The votes have also made it possible to reject amendments designed to separate Turkey from normal accession procedure. We should welcome these votes, which safeguard Turkey’s chances of joining the European Union.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a Charter for Europe and for the citizens of the European Union is a fine thing. I say this as a federalist, well aware that that the principle we shall have to refer to one day will be the principle of subsidiarity in order to attain greater freedom for the peoples of Europe, including my own people, the people of the Val d'Aosta, which has always encouraged federalism in Italy and in Europe. It must of course be pointed out, however, that the Charter is only the starting point and not the finishing line. I would like to stress how important it is to refer to the national minorities and cultural and linguistic differences in the chapter on equality. In order to provide an international guarantee for the linguistic minorities, we have to make progress in terms of a genuine European constitution.
Mr President, firstly my sincere thanks and congratulations go to Mr Costa Neves, Mrs Buitenweg and Mr Seppänen for their excellent work. At the same time I wish to thank Terence Wynn, as chairman of the Committee on Budgets, who has proved a competent leader in the work of the current year. The job of general rapporteur is a tough and demanding one, but Mr Costa Neves has managed well and my group supports his policy on the Commission’s budget.The budget’s general lines include cancelling the cut in agricultural expenditure, attending to arrears in payments, and the Commission’s reform. The strengthening of the policy on the northern dimension in the budget’s explanatory statement may also be regarded as a positive move. The handling of the budget is based very much on last year’s financial statements, which showed a surplus of EUR 11 billion. Expenditure was EUR 8.5 billion less than anticipated and EUR 6.5 billion of the Structural Funds remained unspent. For that reason, we now have to pay special attention to improving administration and not producing such large estimates for expenditure. Otherwise, the bottom will fall out of budget policy altogether.One particular focus in the budget is the reduction in payment arrears. At present they stand at more than EUR 60 billion. My group supports this goal. It also supports the reform of the Commission, which is one of Parliament’s most urgent priorities. It will increase efficiency and the importance of personal responsibility. It is being proposed that a part of the appropriations should be placed in a reserve, so that the Commission may quickly propose a reform of its staff regulations and clarify its ideas on the early retirement scheme.Heading 4 is difficult. The Commission and the Council are proposing EUR 125 million for the Moroccan fishing agreement, although this agreement is not forthcoming. This is clearly a matter of a concealed reserve which, indeed, contravenes the Financial Regulation. It must be dissolved. As a counterweight, it is being proposed that a flexible instrument should be used to modernise the Spanish and Portuguese fishing fleets. This could be partly acceptable. On the other hand, our group cannot accept the cut of EUR 84 million in the CARDS Programme. We, as liberals, like participating in joint agreements to carry through the budget in Parliament, but we cannot be party to this idea. The CARDS Programme has been an undisputed priority with Parliament, and, for that reason, we are hoping for similar cuts in the budget for other programmes where payment appropriations have not been used to the extent they might have been in any case.Of the small programmes, the most considerable is the A-30 appropriations, which are earmarked as assistance to organisations. These appropriations take up a totally unreasonable amount of Parliament’s time in relation to their importance. For that reason, the whole system should be clarified. In addition, the way the organisations are selected is very rarely based on objective criteria.We particularly support Mrs Buitenweg’s recommendations concerning discipline in Parliament’s budget, as mentioned in her report. They remain beneath the ceiling we, ourselves, set, that is to say 20% of all administrative costs, even though it includes the costs relating to enlargement. The question of eastward enlargement itself is one that must be dealt with in such a way that Parliament’s work is not made any harder and that in the future we may congregate in our own united assembly.
Mr President, I too wish to thank Commissioner Barnier for the clarity and the transparency of the balance-sheet that he has presented. The summer of 2003 has indeed been a real scorcher throughout Europe, from Rovaniemi to the Algarve, and the tragic consequences of this heatwave have been unprecedented. This has been a cruelly unfair summer in Europe: as we have seen, it is the weakest in society who have been the main victims. Almost 20 000 elderly people, living alone and in some cases suffering from respiratory disorders, have succumbed to this deadly heat. On behalf of the, I would like first of all to offer my sincere condolences to the victims’ families.In parallel with this human tragedy, with this public health disaster which continues to shake France to its core, the forests in the Mediterranean countries have suffered almost irreversible damage. This summer, particularly fierce fires have devastated more than 400 000 hectares of forest. This is a human, economic and ecological balance-sheet that might have been even more serious had it not been for the bravery and the efficiency of the fire-fighters, many of whom are volunteers, for the assistance given by the Red Cross to the communities affected, for the solidarity that European States have shown one another, not forgetting the substantial cooperation of third countries. Europe has acted effectively: the Commissioner referred to the EUR 31 million spent in the context of demonstrating solidarity with Portugal – a solidarity which is to be found at the very heart of our Treaties – and the Structural Funds. There is another observation I must make: the EUR 23-odd million, which is the cost, to date, of the centralised Community forest fire management and research programme, have not been spent in vain. The pilot projects for fire prevention, for identifying at-risk areas and for replanting affected areas have demonstrated their usefulness, not least in Portugal, but also their limitations. It is true that Europe must do more. These enormous fires in Portugal and in the South of France have proved one thing: the fleet of fire-fighting aircraft in most Member States is ageing. Without the assistance of the neighbouring countries that I have just mentioned and in particular without the assistance of the Russian jumbos and their 12-tonne tanks, considerably more than 400 000 hectares would have gone up in smoke. This is why the Liberals are in favour – and this should answer one of your questions – of creating a European civil protection force that would be responsible for combating forest fires, floods and also for addressing risks posed by industrial disasters in particular. Increasing human resources in this way must go hand in hand with stepping up material resources. Europe cannot lag behind Canada, Australia, the United States or Russia; it must consider in particular acquiring its own powerful European water bombers, appropriate to our various specific geographical characteristics. I look forward, therefore, to hearing Commissioner Wallström present the proposals referred to by her colleague, Commissioner Barnier.Nor can Europe ignore the fact, and no one has yet referred to this, that 95% of these fires are started by man. It is crucial that we step up awareness-raising campaigns. A single cigarette thrown out of a car window can lead to the destruction of an entire forest. Holding those who are negligent responsible is, therefore, another of our articles of faith for prevention.Lastly, and I could have started with this point, how can we fail to make the link between these endless natural disasters and global warming? Thesupports the Commission in all its efforts to reduce greenhouse gases. This summer, the records for ozone pollution have been broken in all Member States. Despite the battering that the Kyoto Protocol takes on a regular basis, and despite its limitations, it must remain a tool, a minimum target for some, but also a commitment. The European Union must, now more than ever, make this protocol its warhorse in its international negotiations.
Mr President, there have been further developments regarding the report on the 1997 discharge. That is a new departure, but then again it comes as no surprise, for this was a special case after all. It was the first discharge after the fall of the Santer Commission and thus the first opportunity for this Parliament to have a say in the European Commission’s reform policy. Since then, Parliament has made its views heard on a regular basis, notably in the excellent reports by Mr van Hulten and Mr Pomés Ruiz. Needless to say, the reforms should help restore confidence in Europe. The question today is whether those initial steps, which were promised at the time in order to obtain the discharge, have actually been made.All in all, it is fair to say that the Commission has made every effort to meet the requirements of this Parliament. A serious start has been made on reforms. It is, of course, too soon to determine whether all the required results have been achieved; too many words still need to be translated into action for that to happen. Although things can still go pear-shaped, even at Commissioner level – and naturally the abominable Commission proposal on access to documents is one of the things that springs to mind – it is quite clear that this Commission is highly committed to making a break with the past.I will give you a few examples. In its discharge resolution, this Parliament demanded an end to an unacceptably high percentage of error in bills. The Commission subsequently submitted proposals to streamline the Financial Regulation, and produced a plan to eliminate all abnormal arrears by the end of 2003. Parliament is issued with six-monthly reports on this. In addition, Parliament asked for a reform of the rules on whistle-blowers and for disciplinary procedures; the Commission ensured that this reform was made. Parliament asked for improvements in the field of bureaux for external aid; tick. Parliament requested a list of current fraud and corruption inquiries; again tick. Parliament asked the Commission to clarify its foreign aid strategy; tick yet again. Mr President, these are but a few examples, but they do demonstrate that the European Parliament can yield substantial results if it makes a concerted effort.One section of the discharge which this Parliament has every reason to be proud, is that concerning the hospital in Gaza. In 1996, this project, which is subsidised by the European Union, was 97% complete. Due to mismanagement and a lack of follow-up, this hospital still stood empty up until the end of last year, at the very time – we are familiar with the images from the Middle East – when there was a desperate shortage of medical help in an area which very much needs it.In April 1999, this Parliament found out about this scandalous state of affairs. From that moment, we gave the Commission hell, with no let-up, until we finally had results. Since the hospital opened three months ago, more than 2 700 patients have already been treated and more than 370 healthy babies have been born there, which is good news in an area where death is an every-day occurrence. If this Parliament had not made it so clear that enough was enough, I am convinced that the hospital would still be empty now. Unfortunately, the hospital is now having to face other problems, namely it is impossible to make any deliveries to this hospital due to the closure of Gaza, and even ambulance services cannot get through the Israeli blockades, but that is another story.I would like to take the opportunity to go into Mr van Dam’s amendment very briefly. I believe that, although it is an extremely kind and considerate amendment, the content of which must be given due follow-up, I cannot recommend approval of it as rapporteur, because we have very consistently rejected new elements in the discharge, so I hope that there will be some understanding for this.Needless to say, there are also areas of concern with regard to the 1997 discharge. For example, a higher level of transparency must be achieved within the personnel policy with regard to recruitment of staff and the proposed redundancy scheme. I also expect the Commissioner to shed some light on how the Commission will guarantee that each individual Commissioner will ensure that recommendations from the Court of Auditors do not end up in some drawer somewhere, but will be implemented with due care. This Parliament will monitor the follow-up of all reports brought by the Commission. The extensive pledges for the coming years must be translated into action, and I hope that we can do this together, and in doing so, close off this sad chapter and be able to work together on the future with confidence.
Mr President, Members such as myself have complained over the last five years that when the Council holds debates, purportedly about asylum and immigration as a whole, it only ever talks about combating illegal immigration. I am pleased to say that Mr Pirker's report turns that tendency on its head. In a report responding to a Commission communication specifically on illegal immigration, he pays a great deal of attention to how opening up legal migration channels can help combat smuggling and trafficking. Indeed, in his report, on which I also congratulate him, there are 15 references to illegal immigration. That is nearly matched by 11 references to legal migration. This is truly welcome.Like Mr Sørensen, I cannot share Mr Pirker's enthusiasm for a European corps of border guards. No-one seems to be clear what this means. Mr Pirker says it would just be a unit in support of national border guards and not a supranational body replacing them, but some Commission documents suggest that the ultimate aim is indeed some sort of supranational force with power over national authorities. It is dangerous to start going down this route without having a clear idea about the final destination. Obviously we need to have maximum coordination and exchanges to provide a more uniform level of security at external borders, but there is plenty more we can do about that before rushing into a centrally managed EU body that would raise all kinds of legal difficulties regarding border guards exercising power outside their own jurisdiction.There could be very practical problems. Imagine, for example, the case of Euro-guards stationed on a border where local pay rates were lower than elsewhere, and the resentment that would create among lower-paid local staff. We are already seeing that sort of thing in the Balkans.Finally, I urge the British Government to recognise the contradictions in its own approach. It constantly lectures other Member States on the need to strengthen external border controls, but refuses to make any constructive contribution to Schengen or to support the common immigration policy. This ambivalence cannot continue.
In spite of some sound efforts, current fisheries policy still means that the EU is buying the right to misuse the natural resources of the poor. It is a modern form of colonialism. What is required is genuine reform of fisheries policy and a totally altered view of our relations with poor countries. I have therefore chosen to vote against the aforesaid report in its entirety.
Mr President, the fact that negotiations are taking place is no secret: that was why I was able to ask the question – we do not disagree on that – but the problem lies in the content.It is awfully nice of the Council to tell us that it will inform us afterwards, but we – the only democratic body in the EU – would like to be consulted as it negotiates whether or not it is currently written in the Treaty. The principle is real exposure. I have a suspicion that the President-in-Office is personally in favour of transparency. He should therefore tell us what is really going on.I would like to wish the President-in-Office a happy Christmas and say thanks to him for being with us over the last six months, because I have a terrible feeling that we will not see him again.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, as an Italian Member of the European Parliament from the Movement of European Republicans in theGroup and for Mr Martelli’s Liberal Socialists, I can only hope that these six months will prove an assured success for Europe and for Italy. To solve the difficult tasks that lay ahead of you – from major infrastructure to pensions and illegal immigration – you will not be needing sensationalist television formats but intelligent, creative work of political mediation, in order to honour the commitment you have made before this Parliament. The profile of your actions must therefore be very high and focused on the major international options, most of all the new Constitution for the Twenty-Five, under which every step forward will be welcomed but no step backward will be allowed at all.Rebuilding a real partnership with the United States must start with a direct relationship with the European Union, with Europe gradually taking on responsibility and leadership in NATO, with a moderate, rather than antagonistic or subservient view of the relations. Therefore, Mr President-in-Office, we believe it is essential to encourage the United Kingdom to join monetary union so as to strengthen Europe at an international level.The other difficult test lying ahead of you is the solution to the Middle East problem, bearing in mind that the roadmap requires a highly impartial attitude, and therefore European intervention must not be directed to just one side. These are major challenges, Mr President-in-Office, for which, on behalf of myself and also our country, I wish you every success.
Mr President, Commissioner Patten, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday in Jerusalem, Israelis and Palestinians were signing the Agreement to open the road between Gaza and the West Bank, a free passage through Israel connecting the Palestinian territories. This corridor, today, is more than a symbol, it is a reality, fragile but tangible.The way opened up a month ago by the Sharm el-Sheikh Memorandum finally puts the Oslo and Wye River Accords back on track. This phase is essential for a fair and lasting settlement of the conflict. The Accords recognise the Palestinians’ right to self-determination, as a State, but also guarantee the right of Israel to live in safety within secure and recognised borders.The European Union, itself a unique example of cooperation between nations formerly at war, must serve here as a model and as a catalyst, promoting trade with the region and why not, in the longer term, creating an internal market for the whole of the Near East. Did you not speak, Commissioner Patten, of multiplying, revitalising multilateral cooperation in the region? The objective may seem to be a distant one, but it is one worth pursuing. The European Union must associate itself with this; its vocation and its interest require it to be present wherever peace and democracy must be consolidated.
Mr President, Commissioner, I would echo Mr Dupuis in saying that I do not know how many times we have stood here and discussed human rights violations in China. Unfortunately, the situation appears to be getting worse and worse. Torture is on the increase. There is frequent use of the death penalty. Freedom of expression is limited.The  Group is very worried about this and appeals to the Commission and the Council to put increased pressure on China regarding human rights issues. The world cannot look silently on as the world’s most populous country systematically engages in violations against its citizens on a daily basis. We have high hopes that the Swedish Presidency will succeed in bringing about a united approach prior to the Geneva meeting in a month’s time and then, in the course of the meeting, will get a resolution passed concerning China.The Chinese have extremely limited opportunities to practise their religion. Catholics report systematic persecution. Mosques are burned down. In Tibet, the oppression of the Tibetan people, especially of Buddhist monks, continues. Torture, re-education camps and imprisonment under unacceptable conditions are the rule rather than the exception. We know that there are now at least 600 political prisoners in Tibet, most of whom are monks and nuns.Over the last year, we have been able to see, on TV screens throughout the world, the harsh offensive launched by the Chinese régime against the meditation movement Falun Gong since the latter was banned in July 1999. Ever since the ban, tens of thousands of Falun Gong practitioners have been arrested. At least 137 people have died in prison. Thousands of cases of torture, atrocities and ill-treatment are also being reported, as is the fact that thousands of people are in work camps and countless individuals have been punished with imprisonment following summary trials. That is completely unacceptable.Falun Gong has been branded an evil sect, but one might well wonder if the reason for the hatred felt towards this peaceful movement does not lie, rather, in the threat it constitutes to the Communist system, because it unites so many people. However, Falun Gong practitioners are entirely peaceful and have no political ambitions other than to be allowed to exercise their basic rights – rights which are laid down in the Chinese constitution and in international agreements signed by China.(Applause)- Laos
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market. – Mr President, I came to this opinion on behalf of the Legal Affairs Committee with many misgivings. The suggested extension of the directive to a new swathe of businesses and professions looks on the face of it to be both dangerous and burdensome: dangerous in that there might be a threat to the privileged lawyer/client relationship which is the linchpin of access to justice in a civil society, and burdensome because in theory this directive would now extend to your local high street jeweller.However, it is one thing to require a multinational firm of accountants to comply with this sort of regulation, quite another to require a small firm or one-person business to do so. I was attracted at first by the outrage of colleagues who said that this proposal represented the state turning lawyers and others into policemen on their behalf – but as I read and researched, my views changed. We must bear in mind, as has already been said by the rapporteur, that the proposal we are considering is before us at our request, at the request of Parliament, because we wanted to get to grips with money-laundering, with this international crime which represents a substantial threat to the single market.I have been impressed by the results obtained in England by the Criminal Investigation Unit, working with lawyers under what are already very extensive rules and regulations, but respecting professional privilege. They have been particularly successful. We should learn from that experience. In Scotland, lawyers are encouraged to see tough rules as self-defence for lawyers, protecting them against the claim of involvement in crime. We should as a Parliament stick to our original desire to tackle money-laundering strongly as a manifestation of organized crime and it seems to me that perhaps this problem will come back to haunt us.It is a shame that we have not been able to deal with this problem as what it is, a matter of criminal law, but have had instead to deal with it within the strait-jacket of the internal market context.
Mr President, the issue of discharge is an immense one for the institutions of the EU. Its importance is evident in the fact that in many cases it is now being proposed that the discharge should be postponed. As far as the Commission is concerned, this is the fifth year in succession that the Court of Auditors has not delivered an unambiguously favourable verdict. As the Member States, that is to say the Council, has advocated discharge, this is almost a matter of structural conflict. Apparently, the Court of Auditors should specify the shortcomings and incidences of malpractice in more detail and place less trust in mathematics.Although I say this, in no way does this diminish the Commission’s responsibility, which is a great one. The reports concerning discharge show just how badly administrative reforms are needed. Commissioner Kinnock’s package of reforms must be pushed through without delay. The main focus is the reform of internal auditing in each of the institutions. Administration and auditing must go hand in hand to preserve a sense of personal responsibility and help it grow. The present system, in which it takes various signatures to authorise payments, does away with the notion of personal responsibility. It is totally impossible to find anyone who will take responsibility. Improving the quality of administration is a basic requirement for a greater sense of responsibility and better efficiency. Increased control is only a reflection of the fact that the organisation has failed.The main financial difficulties focus on the largest budgetary category, agriculture. This is because agricultural aid is largely based either on land area or the number of livestock, and the Member State in question pays it. This development is largely due to the WTO agreement, which determines the various forms of agricultural aid, their classification and the desired trend it should adopt. The system has led to a tremendous amount of bureaucracy, an enormous increase in monitoring, and, in the long term, we can assume it will also lead to inefficiency and the entrepreneurial spirit of agriculture will vanish forever. At the same time, the European farmers have become the most closely observed section of the population on the Continent, and, for that reason, I am hoping for a lucid clarification of the agricultural aid system at the forthcoming WTO talks.Mr President, over the last few days we have read in the press that the European Parliament is a haven for thieves. This is both embarrassing and distasteful. We must act in such a way that EU property is treated with the same respect as other property. In this connection, we must check up on the matter of parliamentary administration. In the EU budget this year there is an appropriation of EUR 300 000 set aside for an investigation into parliamentary administration. According to the budget, this investigation will be given to an independent expert. What has happened to this investigation, why has it not got under way, and what is going to be done about it?
Mr President, my dear Pat, congratulations once again, this time on your new professional début. It is splendid to see you doing what you promised. You are showing yourself to be trustworthy. We have obtained a new Europe today, but we have also had a new Parliament since January. Now, we are to be politicians, not technicians, and you have shown, and will show, us the way. Pat, we are hungry, in fact very hungry, and we have an appetite for change. Our group will support you entirely as you prepare the individual dishes that can satisfy us. However, our group will always have an appetite for change. In Denmark, we have a lovely song that our family often sings. It goes like this: ‘Life’s harvest is in struggle never ceasing…’, ‘…while changeless calm is death’s abode’. Our group has always wished for struggle, for we have an appetite for change.Enlargement is the most important matter we are facing at this time. It is about people rather than about technical devices, budgets, laws and rules. We are clearly the place where people are to meet, and we must make this place work. Our group will do everything to move the tradition on, as we have already done by now inviting members of the national parliaments in the candidate countries to visit us. What is most important, however – and what we have a very great appetite for – are reforms to this House of ours. We have a need for reforms, and not only reforms of our statute – important as those are – but also changes to the way in which we work, so that we can deliver the results our electorate wants to see.That leads me on to my next point, concerning contact with the people. The prerequisite for being in touch with the people is that we should be able to deliver the goods and, more specifically, the goods that people demand. That means being able to put our own house in order and being effective and concentrating on what is really important and what we have some influence upon. In those terms, what is most important are reforms, results and communication, and certainly it is splendid to hear you communicate. You are enthusiastic, you show your feelings, you are colourful in your speech and you use the right words. I would almost go so far as to say that we in effect have a female President, for you employ the feminine side of your personality: imagination and creativity; and that is what we need if we are to reach our citizens. We must be politicians, not technicians. All right, we were unable to have a woman as President, but a man with feminine sides to his personality is no bad thing either.The Convention is what is most important in connection with the Europe of the future. Moreover, it is important that we should not just engage in navel-gazing but try to find solutions to the tasks facing us. Rather than get bogged down in a dispute about whether we are to have a ‘Constitution’, a ‘Basic Treaty’ or a ‘federation’, we should design a system in which there is democratic control over political decisions. When we draw up legislation for our citizens, they must be able to see who are making the decisions, and those who are must be democratically accountable for them. That is the message of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party. We want to see political accountability in Europe. We are “fit for the future”, but our group is also “fit to fight for the new Europe”, as well as being “fit to fight for the future together with yourself”.
Mr President, I would like to concentrate purely on the issue of sanitation and I apologise to the Commissioner for not giving her advance notice of some questions I wish to pose. I would be most grateful if she would try to depart from her prepared remarks and deal with these issues.At Johannesburg she, on behalf of the European Union, was successful in securing agreement on ambitious targets to improve sanitation for billions of people within a relatively short period of time. The first year has passed and there has been lots of talk and plenty of paper, but if the targets are to be met, we need to see hundreds of wells, thousands of septic tanks, tens of thousands of pipes being laid each and every month. At a meeting in Parliament earlier today, the Commissioner reminded Members that EUR 1 billion had been set aside to start projects and she informed us that the Council had blocked the spending of this money.Commissioner, can you tell the House, has the Commission being putting forward specific proposals for the use of some of this money on projects to improve sanitation in developing nations? Has any expenditure at all been authorised by the Council or has everything been blocked? Has this refusal to release funds been universal; has it been entirely by agreement of the Council or has it been the case that some Member States have been instrumental in securing the blocking of expenditure?Finally Commissioner, if this is the case, how do you feel personally about the way in which the Council appears to be backsliding on the commitments made by the European Union at a summit where – and we take great pride in this fact – we played a leadership role?
We have voted against the Draft Amending Budget 2/2002 of the European Union for the financial year 2002.At the committee meetings on 19 March and 9 April, it was decided that EUR 10 billion of the combined surplus of EUR 14 billion should be paid back to the Member States. Given that the Budget for 2002 shows a surplus of EUR 14 billion, it is unreasonable that only EUR 5.5 billion should now be transferred back to the Member States. We do not believe that this decision is rooted in the discussion held earlier in the committee. Because the Member States are not to get back the sum to which they are entitled, we are voting against the proposal.We are also conscious of the fact that the sum which is not now being paid out will, in principle, have to be paid out at a later stage. The Commission has already announced such large payment requirements for 2003 that there is a fear that the figure will far exceed the budget ceiling. That would entail very high expenditure for the Member States in anticipation of 2003 and 2004 when the budgeting requirements will increase prior to enlargement.
Mr President, it is a great shame that neither rapporteur has entered into proper consultation over this. We are dealing with a very important piece of legislation and with important articles. We Liberals, along with certain other members of this House, would like to take this opportunity to make it absolutely crystal clear that we are in favour of improving this openness regulation. So I am sorry there has not been enough consultation. We want to show how we uphold the interests of the citizens in this Chamber.***
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, and along with my colleague Mrs Plooij-van Gorsel, we join others in offering our condolences to the victims of the Russian nuclear submarine, and in asking for greater cooperation between the European Union and the Russian authorities in order to prevent a further disaster. Obviously, we believe that the European Union has sufficient arguments to ensure such cooperation. We would also like to express our concern – as other speakers have done – because, unfortunately, the matter that we were to discuss, that of the very serious, terrible and fatal accident of the submarine Kursk has led us to deal with the problem of a nuclear submarine in Mediterranean waters, in European Union territory, in a British colony. This is causing very serious and justified alarm, due to a serious breakdown in the nuclear reactor, and because, among other things, European Union directives are not being complied with. We think that there is a need to take urgent action. The European Union must intervene, and this nuclear submarine needs to be urgently transported to a British base to be repaired under the proper conditions.
Mr President, I, too, would like to start by thanking the rapporteur, Mr Vatanen, for his excellent preparatory work, which aims to ensure the rapid passage of this important business. An efficiently functioning internal market requires smooth working and more standardised practices than previously in the transportation sector. However, the reporting obligations of ships arriving in ports and leaving them vary greatly from one Member State to another. Most Member States have already signed the IMO's Convention on the facilitation of maritime traffic. The proposal for a directive, now under discussion, is a good example of practices which are already internationally recognised as being good ones. In my opinion, besides the safety of shipping, it is important to facilitate practical procedures. By clear, uniform yet flexible procedures, shipping will be made a more attractive alternative mode of transport. There may be a particularly positive impact on local shipping. Improving the effectiveness of port practices will also facilitate the development of important intermodal transportation systems. Since several forms are in use, attention needs to be given, in the future, to how electronic communications can be better utilised.A positive aspect of this proposal is that the directive is intended to pass into law within a rapid timetable. The rapporteur has made good revisions to the proposal for a directive. Our group supports the approval of the report and its rapid passage through the legislative process.
Mr President, I apologise to Mr Morillon for not being here when he opened the debate.This report could hardly be more timely. If – as seems likely – US and British Forces are now in control of Baghdad, then the debate on the aftermath of war and its lessons can now commence. Unlike its predecessors, the current American administration shows little interest in a strong and united Europe. Our weakness has been cruelly exposed and the onus is on the EU to develop a security strategy which may help us reshape transatlantic relations. Liberal Democrats in this House welcome the Morillon report as an important contribution to this process.Europe's divisions over Iraq have been a stark reminder of our failure to speak with one voice on security policy, and yet we should not forget that Europe does have a single trade policy, a common development policy and an embryonic European diplomatic corps in the form of the Commission's offices around the world. These are powerful instruments and would be all the more so if combined as part of an integrated foreign policy. Our foreign policy is incoherent because it is split between three Commissioners, the Council presidency and a Council High Representative, and because some Member States deny our essential commonality of interests in foreign policy, or forbid the Commission to play a central executive role. Without a common defence policy, Europe will still lack the military muscle needed for a credible common foreign policy. With combined defence spending less than half of that of the USA, it is clear the EU is not spending enough on defence, nor would our citizens be likely to welcome much higher levels of spending. So it is not enough simply to spend more: we need to spend better, especially on key requirements such as strategic airlift, precision guided weapons and air tankers. That is why thesupports the establishment of an armaments and research agency to coordinate defence spending. What we want is to achieve better value for money, and if EU countries agree that military equipment made outside the EU best meets our needs and provides best value for money, we should not choose a European option in a misguided attempt at protectionism. That would be to repeat the mistakes of the common agricultural policy. Better defence spending must be accompanied by stronger decision-making. By sending to the European Convention, through General Morillon's report, a clear and united message in favour of a strong and effective security and defence policy, Parliament can hope to influence its deliberations. Having one external affairs representative, based in the Commission but supplemented with resources and expertise from the Member States, will go a long way towards connecting the disparate elements of foreign and security policy.We also need greater flexibility in launching and conducting crisis management operations, if necessary by greater recourse to constructive abstention. While there are clearly reservations about this, introducing a collective defence clause in the new Constitutional Treaty, similar to that under the Western European Union Treaty, also seems a necessary step. It may be that progress towards these goals cannot be made at once with the 15, let alone with 25 Member States. That is why I welcome the Belgian Government's initiative for a meeting later this month with France, Germany and Luxembourg, on defence policy. Progress in European integration is often only achieved by a group of determined countries pressing ahead, with others joining later. Nonetheless I insist that enhanced cooperation on defence must remain open to all governments who wish to join, and that the British Government in particular, given its military capability and experience, will do so.In conclusion, a European security and defence policy can usefully complement the collective security provided by NATO as long as there is rationalisation of arms procurement, added value in the form of a doctrine based on conflict prevention and crisis management and backed by the credible threat of military action, and a more coherent and unified approach to security policy. Let our security and defence policy be forged on the anvil of hope from the steel of our embarrassment over Iraq.
Mr President, Commissioner, the fisheries agreements play a very important role in the fisheries sector. The agreements with third countries have very great significance for the European Union and especially for those regions with large fishing harbours. I am thinking here of employment in the sector. I am thinking also of the many subsidiary businesses and service trades which are wholly or partially dependent upon fisheries. By means of the fisheries agreements, the European Union is able to engage in fishing operations and exchange fishing rights with third countries. Those of us in the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party therefore support the fact that the EU’s fisheries policy embraces these many agreements with third countries.The negotiations concerning a new agreement between the EU and Morocco have made slow progress. They have been under way since the agreement expired on 30 November 1999, and the European Union has paid compensation to the Spanish and Portuguese ship owners and fishermen. Commissioner Fischler has stated that this monologue cannot continue. I very much agree with the Commissioner about this. The fishermen in particular cannot be blamed for not understanding the situation and for being very disappointed about the fact that the negotiations concerning the Morocco agreement have dragged on. Those of us in the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party are in favour of as big an effort as possible now being made to bring the long-winded negotiation procedure to a conclusion. We therefore support the wording of the motion for a Resolution from the Committee on Fisheries. We nonetheless propose an amendment to the paragraph concerning the arrangements designed to mitigate the effects of a failure to renew the fisheries agreement with Morocco. We propose adding the words: ‘which are to be co-financed to an appropriate degree by the EU’.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my group, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Bradbourn, for his thorough work. The need to improve the freight transport system in terms of the environment is a vital one, with the amount of traffic continually growing. The enlargement of the EU will also bring with it new challenges as transportation routes get longer.Our group supports the Marco Polo programme and is satisfied with the Committee’s proposal. The EU can bring added value to this area by supporting innovative, new technology projects. No mode of transport should be excluded from the programme. Transport chains that may also involve transportation by road must also be included. If a project, in which road haulage companies are included, is good, it must be possible to apply for aid for it. The aim must be to move from a more polluting mode of transport to more environmentally friendly transport solutions.In my opinion, it is important that we can also lend our support to improving the existing situation. Improvements can often be made by means of a better cost-benefit ratio rather than by starting on an entirely new project. In concentrating only on new projects there is a clear danger of distortions of competition in relation to the old ones.It is right that the regulation should include a separate mention of sea transport and keep the reference to ‘motorways of the seas’. ‘Motorways of the seas’ is also given a separate mention in the White Paper on Transport; it is therefore only natural to include it in this regulation.As the rapporteur said, threshold values for all types of action in the Commission proposal are too high. The threshold values for modal shift projects, catalyst actions and common learning actions must, as the Committee is proposing, be halved. Parliament’s amendments will not radically alter the essentials, but will make certain points in the Commission proposal clearer. We support Amendment No 29 tabled by the Group of theand other amendments which aim to prevent and reduce unnecessary traffic.The programme’s budget is fairly modest and the objectives are very ambitious. We think, however, that it is important to set targets that are as ambitious as possible. In the longer term we hope that Marco Polo will prove worthwhile and attract additional funding. We must in addition investigate the possibility of additional finance for important infrastructure projects that supplement the Europe-wide traffic networks.
The Liberal Party’s five Members of the European Parliament support the efforts in this report to give better diplomatic training to those EC officials who work in the Commission’s delegations. We have proposed – and had accepted – an amendment which emphasises that it is simply a question of in-service training and that the courses are to be open to diplomats from the national foreign services. The Liberals do not, however, support the idea of setting up a new institution in the form of an EC College of Diplomacy. Nor do we want the present delegations to develop into EU embassies. Therefore, the Liberals have today voted in favour of the report as a whole but abstained from voting on the above-mentioned points.
Mr President, Commissioner, every day, people in Europe whose only desire is to make a future or new life for themselves or their families on our continent are abused and violated. Their longings are odiously exploited by all kinds of profiteers including those who transport these people to Europe and those who exploit their vulnerability within our own Member States. Many young women see their lives wrecked through prostitution and drugs. Others are exploited in hazardous occupations and are miserably remunerated outside any form of social protection system. People smuggling and trafficking in human beings must therefore be combated by every means available under the rule of law.This directive provides us with an additional opportunity to seize the big players. We naturally have a responsibility to help the victims and give them the opportunity of a better life. I believe that many of them may have reasons for remaining within the EU if they so wish, but that must happen through the customary channels. With the help of the victims, what counts is getting at the big villains. At the same time, a fair and sensitive balance must be struck between supporting the victims and tackling criminal activity – a combination of humanitarianism and the rule of law.Mrs Sörensen’s proposal improves the directive which can, however, be made better still. She herself mentioned a number of proposals. Of relevance in this connection are individual organisations and responsible state authorities, but what also matters is having the directive specify that victims be allowed access to the labour market, something which is not at present a part of this proposal. I want to second what has been said, to the effect that it clearly needs to be possible for people to extract themselves from the anxieties and serious problems that arise from their being so vulnerable. I want to thank Mrs Sörensen for a very good piece of work.
Mr President, the reform plans receive my approval. They focus on fleet control and enforcement, with good reason. Making cuts hurts, but it also opens up new opportunities. EU resources must be deployed with a view to promoting viable economic activities. Concerning control and enforcement, I share your view about international uniform control on a level playing field.I have a few critical comments to make. First of all, it is beyond me why the Commission wants to allow EU countries to fish for ‘free’ species in the North Sea without any restrictions. That is just asking for trouble. What is required here is a balance. Secondly, you claim that, in principle, the polluter pays. This is indeed stated in the document and is also correct, but we must, however, not lose touch with the facts or reality. We must not get fishermen to foot the bill for natural phenomena. Next I would like to turn my attention to the multi-annual programme: I have no objections to it, as long as we remember the lessons from the past. I would urge you to use effective assessments and minimise red tape.Finally, these are proposals aimed at striking a balance between market forces and the environment. This is European policy..
Mr President, I would advise Mrs Banotti to follow the advice once given to me by the Station Master at Crianlarich, when I pointed out to him that the two clocks, one on each platform, showed different times. He replied, 'What good would it be having two clocks if they both told the same time?'(Laughter)***
Mr President, Commissioner, President-in-Office of the Council, like many of my fellow Members and like many European citizens, I welcome the proposals – which I support – made by the Commission in the wake of the Prestige disaster and presented again here vigorously by Mrs de Palacio. As we all know, however, they may not be enough. If we want to avoid finding ourselves discussing the effects of another disaster in the near future, certain measures need to be taken without delay, with less lukewarm cooperation from the Council: port controls must be stepped up, crews must be given training, assistance must be provided to vessels in difficulty, and, above all, ‘old tubs’ must be banned and single-hulled vessels rapidly replaced. I stress the need to speed up as fast as technologically possible the introduction of the obligation for oil tankers and other vessels with dangerous cargoes to be double-hulled.If we are actually to make a difference in this area, we need practical measures. I therefore propose that access to certain ports located in sensitive areas should be restricted without delay to double-hulled vessels. These areas should be progressively defined and delimited at European level, with the introduction of similar measures to those currently in force, for instance, in Venice harbour. Moreover, the capacity for demolition of old vessels, which is currently inadequate in northern Europe, in particular, must be enhanced with the provision of incentives.The problems ensuing from this drastic measure will only be temporary and will, in any case, be incomparably less than those which would arise should similar disasters take place in sensitive areas, and I am thinking with horror of certain parts of the Mediterranean.Are the Commission and the Council prepared to subordinate the economic considerations which thus far have been given priority to the demands of environmental protection? The Commission’s response would appear to bode well. I call upon the Council to be equally courageous.
Mr President, on behalf of Mrs Ries, I should like to underline the importance of this resolution. Although it only deals with one case, it still reflects the issue which has a European and even international dimension. These are facts that are, unfortunately, increasingly common and which constitute a violation of the international treaties. It has a devastating effect on the life of a father or mother, of children and of an environment. Mr Limet has now been fighting for his children for more than two years. He had been given custody over his children, but they were abducted by his ex-wife and taken to Kenya. The mother of the children was recently found guilty of abduction and given a one year unconditional sentence, but despite the legal steps and mediation by both the Belgian and European political authorities, especially Mr Prodi, the chances of Mr Limet seeing his children again are as good as non-existent. A solution is therefore needed and, where this particular case is concerned, I would ask the Commission and the Council to call on the Kenyan government to ensure that justice ultimately prevails.
Mr President, during the summer, following one particularly deadly attack, we were able to hear, broadcast by most television stations across the world, a Palestinian leader, someone who works closely with the prime minister, make a declaration to the effect that the Palestinian Authority should indeed once and for all commit to combating terrorism. This was too much, however! It was too much for Arafat, who precipitated the crisis in his security services and who forced Abu Mazen to resign. President Arafat’s beatification by the international institutions does not alter the appalling fact that we are still waiting to hear a renunciation of terrorism. Today, it is Arafat who is responsible for the Palestinian suffering, having sabotaged several attempts to secure peace. He is the Saddam Hussein of the Palestinian people and I hope that they will be able to rid themselves of him!
Mr President, this new regulation is – as has been said – very important for passengers. It is very much awaited too, as the fierce competition between companies means the quality of services is still, it has to be said, a cause for considerable criticism. I understand that this is not about over-regulating, but providing a clear framework for dealing with claims and compensation, because passengers are generally ill-informed of their rights in relation to powerful and influential companies, and I support the many speakers who have expressed that point of view. I also know that those same companies are going through a difficult period, particularly since 11 September 2001. However, I would like to ask one or two questions on the problem of refusing boarding. Overbooking is a more correct term, even if it is not very French, because it describes the actual cause, or even the strategy of the companies in some cases, and not just the consequence. But that is a semantic aside.During the plenary debate at first reading, the Commission stated that this overbooking was a marginal phenomenon compared with the general flow of air passengers. I would like to know whether we are really certain of that. The Commission says it has figures close to 250 000 passengers refused in 1999, that is, 1.1 per thousand. I am simply wondering about the reliability of these statistics as they are, I suppose, provided by the companies themselves.The reason I am asking these questions is that I had a problem less than a month ago on a Nice to Brussels flight with SN Brussels Airlines. Without going into details, as this is not the place, there were six of us on the flight – a regular flight – who were overbooked, while my husband and my 7-year old son, who had the same tickets and booked at the same time with the same agency, boarded the plane. One case among 250 000 others, I imagine. That this is a company strategy – and, of course, it is not the only company to do this – was confirmed to me by the ground staff at the airport and by many consumer associations. I am therefore not so certain that this phenomenon is as marginal as that and I can only welcome, like other speakers before me, the increase, in this new regulation, in the protection of passengers’ rights.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the historic opportunity which the coming Intergovernmental Conference is offering us to prepare the institutions and the operation of the European Union in readiness for the 21st century has already been made abundantly clear here. As such, the European Parliament needs to be able to take part in the preparations from close by and has to get involved in the drafting and approval of amendments to the Treaties in order to reinforce the democratic character of this procedure. We should also consider a possible simplification of the Treaties.At the Cologne European Council, it was stated that “during the Conference, other necessary amendments to the Treaties arising as regards the European institutions and in implementing the Treaty of Amsterdam, could also be discussed”. So this also includes the Court of Justice.In my opinion, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs, I emphasise that the organisational and procedural framework of the Court of Justice and the Court of First Instance is due for an overhaul in order to digest the current backlog. This should, in my opinion, go beyond the redistribution of chambers and increasing the number of judges. After all, the sound and timely administration of law forms a key component in each and every constitutional state and we need to ensure that within the European Union, the essence of the prejudicial procedure and general legal protection continue to be guaranteed.Other proposals which have been tabled, such as the question as to whether the European Parliament should be involved in the appointment of judges and whether the authority of the Court of Justice should extend to the third pillar, are under examination.So far, all Treaty amendments have increased the power for Parliament. This should also be the case now. The Committee on Legal Affairs proposes extending the codecision procedure to all areas of the internal market, with the Council still deciding by qualified majority. In these areas, it could even be considered whether Parliament and the Council could acquire the right of initiative with regard to amending existing legalisation. The introduction of a clear hierarchy of legal standards should, after all, ensure that a clear distinction can be drawn between all the various legislative and implementing decisions. Mr President, these were some of the first proposals tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs in its opinion. The remainder will follow in a more detailed report next year.
Mr President, the nightmare in the Middle East never ends. While we stand here and debate, there is an orgy of violence and killing. As you hear, Mr Solana and Mr Patten, we all feel incredibly powerless, disgusted and frustrated. The suicide attacks are preventing Israelis from being able to move about freely. Having a cup of coffee with a friend or shopping for food involves mortal danger. The fear of new attacks has a paralysing effect, of course.The European Parliament has condemned the terrorist attacks on countless occasions and urged Arafat and the Palestinian Authority to do everything in their power to stop them and to counter the hatred now also being spread to the Israelis.Violence also prevails for the Palestinians on the West Bank and in Ramallah, with hundreds of Palestinians dead, among them many children. Those of us who are friends of Israel, those of us who defend the Israeli state and its right to exist must react vigorously when the military and the government act as they do. The escalated violence and brutality of the occupation is quite disproportionate. A whole world is now united in demanding that Israel withdraw from the Palestinian areas. Its action is indefensible, and the attacks against Palestinian civilians will lead to more, not fewer, suicide bombers. The violent offensive and the killing can never lead to peace.If Israel is at war, as Sharon has stated, there are certain international conventions and laws which apply. Now, reports are flooding in that these are being violated. We do not know this with any certainty because no organisations or media are permitted in the area. Our fellow MEPs tell us that ambulances are not allowed to get through, either.The hatred between Sharon and Arafat is bitter and long-standing. It seems as if the parties can no longer escape from the situation. Comprehensive international commitment and a clear list of demands are therefore needed. It is good that the United States has stepped up its commitment and finally sent Colin Powell to the region.The EU too must do more, however. At the meeting on Monday, the ministers must ask themselves what we can do. An immediate weapons embargo? Yes. Obviously, the Association Agreement must be discussed. I do not believe that, in the present situation, this would be the right moment to suspend it, but the matter must be discussed.It must be possible for Palestinians and Israelis to live in peace, side by side. There would be no more important contribution to world peace and the international fight against terrorism than if this conflict were to be resolved.
Mr President, when things go wrong in a certain region, the world has come to expect ever more from Europe, and rightly so. We have the means, the organisational set-up and intention to help in emergency situations, and from that point of view, Africa can expect precious little from America under Bush.That is why I welcome the Commission proposal to set up a rapid reaction mechanism alongside the military unit and to supplement ECHO. This new mechanism will certainly meet a need, so much so that demand could soon exceed supply. In my opinion, the resources available for this year are an insult to the serious commitment of the RRM. Even if the amount is doubled or trebled in later years, it remains a joke compared to the many initiatives which can qualify for RRM action. It is about fast decision-making, acting and funding. The impressive list of operations from the otherwise excellent Newton Dunn report comes, therefore, as a bit of a surprise. It contains many important tasks of a not entirely pressing nature, such as providing education, monitoring elections or clearing mines. Could the Commissioner clarify what, according to him, the scope of application will need to be, also in the light of limited financial resources?The RRM initiative, a first pillar construction under the remit of the Commission, appeals to me. It is of utmost importance for our Parliament to be totally involved. Will we be informed about proposed action in good time? We often hear about issues of competence and rivalry between Mr Patten and Mr Solana; a distribution of tasks between the governments and the Commission in terms of military and civil affairs is very much an option on paper, but could well lead to major problems in reality. Can the Commissioner give us any reassurance in this respect? European politics, military and civilian action must be coordinated effectively. This is another expectation which the world has of us, and rightly so.
Mr President, I am delighted at the progress on economic cooperation with Cambodia and other Asian countries and I am also for the financial support that the European Union gives to Cambodia, but with a qualification and I will come back to that in a minute. I would like to remind you that of all the countries that the European Union gives financial support to, Cambodia receives the most support per head of population.However, I am very concerned about the human rights situation in Cambodia. We all know that practices such as torture of prisoners, the involvement of the army and police in trafficking of women and children and excessive pre-trial detention are commonplace. I have in mind particularly recent reports about the murder of Om Radsady, the ex-chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Cambodian Parliament, the threats against Princess Vacheahra, the present chair of this Committee, and the continuing violation of the rights of the opposition parties, especially the party of Sam Rainsy and the accusations against him over the responsibility for the attack on the Thai Embassy in Phnom Penh.Mr President, in the light of these events I would urge that the aid to Cambodia from the European Union must not be allowed to be unconditional and that our representatives in Phnom Penh must put explicit pressure on the Cambodian Government to make every effort to improve the human rights situation in their country. With a view to the coming elections, the European Union must also press for guarantees of free, fair and democratic elections and of the safety of the various opposition leaders, otherwise, then the European Union must indeed immediately revoke its cooperation agreement with Cambodia. It would be completely incredible if the European Union, that is always so tough on improving human rights and promoting democracy everywhere in the world, were to give such enormous amounts in financial aid to a country that cannot guarantee either one of these things.
Mr President, I agree with the Commission’s and the Council’s interpretation of the Treaties. Of course Article 63 is to be used as a legal basis for guaranteeing third countries’ nationals freedom of movement. Moreover, I have also in the past put forward the view that the actual legal basis was not perhaps the most important thing right now, for what is at issue is guaranteeing the rights of these people. I think, however, that, in the long term, we must arrive at a situation in which Parliament also obtains direct influence on this area. It will require a change to the Treaties, and I am ashamed to say that, during the negotiations in connection with the Nice Treaty, my own country resisted our obtaining influence over these matters because of the Danish reservation. Moreover, I quite agree with Mrs Weiler that we must get away from a situation in which some countries are accorded reservations in connection with parts of such a policy. We must all pull together.
First of all I would like to congratulate Mr Martin on the excellent result. The problems and challenges surrounding aquaculture were brought to the fore well in his report. You can also tell that he did his own research and went to look at the places where this work is being done. I do have a couple of comments, however. One of aquaculture’s most significant problems is its poor image, which is the result of a lack of knowledge. We will only be able to eliminate this lack of knowledge if we have clear test data at our disposal. The European Union must therefore enable research to be carried out. Clarity will result in a better image, and this will enable the sector to solve a major problem, which it must do by means of communication.With regard to the finances, the economic viability of the sector is a significant concern in Europe. If we want to offer opportunities for long–term economic viability, we must not allow the sector to become addicted to subsidies. Self–help is better. My starting point is: allow the market to go its own way, start up and drive itself onwards, and the sector should then be able to look after itself. Apart from that, we do want to handle the frameworks responsibly, so we must define frameworks and preconditions ourselves. This market must be put on the right track. Regulation must be simple, clear and honest. Removing regulatory barriers will make the market more consistent, more transparent and consequently more efficient. This provides better opportunities for competitively priced products, which will also benefit European consumers.Furthermore, consumers benefit from food safety and transparency, both of which are particularly important. It must always be possible to guarantee food safety. We must, however, remain rational in this regard and not make ridiculous demands. If something is 100% good, it does not need to be 150% good. Let us keep both feet on the ground. Imposing excessive demands will pull the plug on small businesses, and they will not survive. I therefore call for simple regulation. Clear and workable on the one hand, and controllable and enforceable on the other. The Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party will endorse this report. I think that aquaculture makes a positive contribution to the preservation of natural fish stocks.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market. – Mr President, both these reports before us today recognise the increasing mobility of persons and the rise in contractual and commercial transactions across our Union. As the internal market develops, our citizens really need a legal framework that guarantees them access to justice wherever they are and whatever their problems.I will confine my remarks mainly to the report on the service of documents. I concur with Mr Lechner that the rules that formerly governed this are some 25 years old; they are complicated and out of date. With the increase in commercial transactions across the internal market, we need new, simple and certain rules. When our citizens or our businesses have to resort to the courts, they need to get past that first step, which is the service of documents, possibly in another jurisdiction, before initiating proceedings. Here we need a simple procedure.As a lawyer in private practice in the UK, I myself, have often wrestled with a pile of books to find the right rules and the right way to go forward for my clients in these circumstances.The proposals that we have before us take matters forward but perhaps they do not go far enough. My group will re-table certain amendments that were put to the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market to try to take matters forward even further, to make the systems that we are going to put in place more readily available and open to practitioners. We need to take this area of law outside the remit of a few specialists who may be able to charge a lot for it. We want to give our citizens across the Union real access to justice so that when they have to resort to the courts they can get things up and running quickly and without difficulties.
Mr President, at first reading thegave its support to the Commission's proposals. We want to see a significant reduction in air pollution within a period of time that reflects the serious environmental problems we face. The Commission argued that the economic benefits would far outweigh the costs involved, but Member States dissented and said that they could not go beyond the targets agreed at the Gothenburg Protocol. Parliament was right, then, to back the Commission. I am pleased that in negotiation the Commission was able to overcome Member States' resistance, make some progress and secure more ambitious targets.But at second reading we are in a rather different position. The Commission has said that it has made a firm agreement with the Council and is sticking to it. It will go no further, it says. It will not support the amendments tabled by theor the Socialist Group. I would like Member States to be more ambitious. But at first reading, Parliament supported proposals based on a Commission model which I find fiendishly complicated. In the absence of the Commission's support now, I do not see how we, as legislators, not technical experts, can propose more ambitious targets for individual countries unless we pull figures out of the air, which seems to me a rather poor and amateurish way of making law. So I have accepted that this is as far as we can go for the time being.But I am also aware that this is a poker game and I am a rotten poker player. It may be that Member States have cards up their sleeves which they are prepared to offer up if pushed in conciliation. It may be that the Commissioner secretly wishes Parliament to pursue its original agenda.If that proves to be the case then I have misread the game. I am waiting with interest to hear from the Commissioner whether she has been keeping cards close to her chest or whether her public position remains the same.
Thank you, Madam President, and congratulations to Commissioner Reding on the result of this protracted football match. This is something we can certainly all be satisfied with. I can think of just one moot point which I should like to ask the Commission to explain. Do the new rules result in the same legal status for players under 23 years of age, as was applicable before the Bosman verdict, should a dispute arise between clubs about an amount by way of compensation? Might players be in danger of not being able to change clubs, even if the contract has expired? What legal protection do players have in such a situation? Are they in danger of being tied for a period during such a legal dispute?
Mr President, I would like to restrict my contribution to the link between development cooperation and agriculture.Over the past couple of years, a considerable share of the funds has been channelled towards the development of agriculture and cattle breeding in the developing countries and, more especially, the Lomé countries. The results are certainly not what we expected. What could be the cause of this?I think that the cause should first and foremost be sought in the lack of clear agricultural policy in the various developing countries, barring a few exceptions. I think that the Commission could do a great deal there to help this develop. No farmer, anywhere in the world, will produce something if prices are too low. The governments in the developing countries are always faced with a difficult dilemma: whom should they support, the farmers or the people in the large cities who want cheap food?This fine balance must be struck in conjunction with the Commission, and not by the Commission on its own. In most countries where the Commission is active, development aid is also granted by the Member States themselves. It should not be the case that the policy of the Member States contravenes that of the Commission. It is up to the Commission’s delegations in the developing countries to assume a leading role in the development of this political dialogue and to ensure that all countries follow this line of approach.Special attention is also required for the costs of the means of production. Far too often, artificial fertiliser, veterinary medication and a host of other items are provided to farmers free of charge. Once the project comes to an end after five years, the policy of free gifts also ends. I think, therefore, that the cost element should be built in right from the outset in the policy of all projects, and as far as I know, this is not the case by any stretch of the imagination.Finally, I wonder whether the funds could not be put to better use. Every year, I notice in the budget of the Commission and in the European Development Fund, that they are far behind in spending the funds.
Mr President, I also want to thank the Commissioner for his answer and, in common with other women, request the figures showing how posts are distributed between men and women. Since the Commission delved into the details on 27 April, perhaps we can be told how many men and women there are in category A posts, not in category A posts generally, but broken down by grade, i.e. A1, A2, A3 and so on, for what is interesting is to see the figures broken down in that way. More often than not, it turns out that there are no women at all in top posts. And, in this connection, we could perhaps be informed about the composition of the panel – which should be an objective panel – in terms of gender. Perhaps in terms of country of origin, too, but in any case in terms of gender. Who, in the end, is to evaluate the shortlist that has been mentioned? More often than not, it is exclusively men who carry out the final evaluation.
Europe can only play a leading role on the world stage if it is prepared to pay a high price for doing so. Unfortunately, this is still not the case. Its own inability leads to frustration and even to open humiliation, as we have seen in the recent mission to Israel, for example. The political price that has to be paid for more effective policy is a reduction in the amount of say that individual nations have for the sake of greater European unity. Decisive foreign policy cannot only be based on economic clout and generosity with euros. The Middle East conflict proves how limited the influence of Israel’s key trading partner and the largest provider of aid to the Palestinians actually is. Without the development of credible European defence, Europe remains a yapping puppy that is allowed to frolic alongside the American bulldog. In this context, the rapid reaction force is a necessary precondition, but it is not meeting the mark by a long shot with regard to all the Petersberg tasks and the fight against terrorism. Europe continues to lag behind in comparison with American military power, and we will not be able to catch up without a substantial increase in defence expenditure. And if we do not want this for political reasons, then fine, we should also accept the consequences. It is high time the rapid reaction force became operational. As it happens, a sound draft about cooperation between the European Union and NATO, which Turkey can endorse, is ready in Macedonia. Unfortunately, Greece continues to throw spanners in the works. In any event, Europe will remain autonomous in its decision-making. Unless we standardise and rationalise our resources, a European defence will never get off the ground. National egotism and commercial interests have for too long got in the way of creating a defence industry. If Europe is not prepared to pay the political and financial price for credible defence, it should stop complaining about its trivial role in the world, otherwise we will continue to yap without being heard.
The amended version of the original text has incorporated Parliament’s position, and the delegation of the People’s Party for Freedom and Democracy can go along with this text. There is a greater information duty for the benefit of workers, and openness must be offered with a view to future employment. Furthermore, the Commission has pledged to instruct a committee of experts, by March 2002 to report on a number of alleged ambiguities and apparent imbalances which could lead to distortion of the internal market principles. If the investigation confirms the said suspicions, the Commission will take measures accordingly.Opponents want to reject this directive and would prefer to wait for a fresh proposal in the short term. However, we have witnessed how national interests can substantially frustrate and delay a fresh proposal. The time for navel-gazing is over and we cannot overlook the globalisation of our economies. European companies must be able to compete with the rest of the world. That also applies to our investors.We realise that this directive will not win any prizes, but rejection brings us back to square one, and that is not in the interests of Europe. In the final analysis, to stand still is to regress, and fear is a bad advisor. We have therefore voted in favour.
Mr President, I have three observations to make. We were horrified by the events of 11 September. The suicide attacks to which the Palestinian terrorists are subjecting the Israelis are a daily 11 September, and beginning to evacuate the settlements changes nothing at the moment unfortunately.My second comment relates to the Roadmap. We must not be mistaken as regards its nature. It is a framework and is not designed to be a straitjacket. It opens negotiations and is not designed to close them. It is a programme and is not designed to be a diktat.Thirdly, in the negotiations that are now beginning, Europe’s position is weak because it is unbalanced and appears to be biased. Italian diplomacy has begun to work towards restoring the balance. We must wish it every success in ensuring that the Italian Presidency finally enables Europe to play a useful role in establishing peace.
Mr President, Commissioner, first of all, I want to state that, as chairman of Finland’s national UNICEF Committee, I have a special interest in this issue. Secondly, I note with satisfaction the incredible importance of cooperation on particular themes.Unfortunately, the feeling in UNICEF is that the organisation has been given assignments to carry out only for as long as there has been no special European organisation that has been able to do so. As Mr Howitt mentioned, thematic cooperation must include education and the fight against poverty. I hope that we shall be able to see a significant increase in the EU’s contribution to high-quality education for women and girls. We know that this has been a topic taken up by the UN, and it will be a topic at the UN’s special session on children in September 2001.We have obtained a communication from the Commission concerning the EU’s contribution to the conference for the poorest countries, but I wonder: will there also be a communication from the Commission about the efforts being made to prepare for the special session in September 2001? The EU’s input will be required in this area too.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I certainly endorse the line taken by Mrs Muscardini and Mr Naïr's reports, and their content, but there is a need to focus on certain factors which are not dealt with. It is important to start from this consideration: the European Union's strategy for the Mediterranean, developed at Feira, in addition to failing to provide practical recommendations, does not take into account certain developments which have taken place in recent years in the Mediterranean Basin. After centuries of struggling and marginalisation it has resumed a key position in world trade again, which, after the discovery of America, had been dominated by the Atlantic routes. Thanks also to the new production boost in Asia, Europe now trades more with Asia than with America. For these trade routes between America and Asia, the Mediterranean provides a valuable centre for unloading goods for northern Europe, which means that carriers do not have to make detours. This is thus a new development which the European Union cannot ignore and which has already yielded the first, astonishing results. And it is towards this integrated, well-structured system that we must endeavour to direct our funds, a system which is already equipped with transport intermodality in the form of aircraft, railways and motorways. Without this practical step, the funds will frequently not be exploited, as is the case at present.
Mr President, as rapporteur I wish to move an oral amendment. There is a compromise amendment proposed by the Socialist Group. It involves an exemption from the need for a prospectus on behalf of the most creditworthy Member States. We should make it clear that we want this exemption to apply only to debt securities, so that they would not, for example, be able to undertake a privatisation without a prospectus, and therefore insert the word 'debt' at the beginning of the compromise on No. 65.(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)***Report (A5-0049/2002) by Mrs Carrilho, on behalf of the Committee on Development and Cooperation, on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council regulation extending and amending Council Regulation (EC) No 1659/98 on decentralised cooperation[COM(2001) 576 – C5-0509/2001 – 2001/0243(COD)](Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)***Report (A5-0061/2002) by Mr Pérez Royo, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the proposal for a Council directive to ensue effective taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments within the Community [COM(2001) 400 – C5-0402/2001 – 2001/0164(CNS)](Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)***Report (A5-0029/2002) by Mr Bautista Ojeda, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, on the proposal for a Council regulation extending the financing of quality and marketing improvement plans for certain nuts and locust beans approved under Title IIa of Regulation (EEC) No 1035/72 and providing for a specific aid for hazelnuts [COM(2001) 667 – C5-0652/2001 – 2001/0275(CNS)](Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)***Report (A5-0065/2002) by Mr Cunha, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, on the proposal for a Council regulation fixing the premiums and guarantee thresholds for leaf tobacco by variety group and Member State for the 2002, 2003 and 2004 harvests and amending Regulation (EEC) No 2075/92 [COM(2001) 684 – C5-0678/2001 – 2001/0276(CNS)](Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)***Report (A5-0041/2002) by Mr Lage, on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries, on the proposal for a Council regulation amending Council Regulation (EC) No 1587/98 of 17 July 1998 introducing a scheme to compensate for the additional costs incurred in the marketing of certain fishery products from the Azores, Madeira, the Canary Islands and the French departments of Guyana and Réunion as a result of those regions’ remoteness[COM(2001) 498 – C5-0446/2001 – 2001/0200(CNS)](Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)***Report (A5-0040/2002) by Mr Maat, on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries, on the proposal for a Council regulation on the conclusion of the Protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and the financial contribution provided for by the Agreement between the European Community and the Gabonese Republic on fishing off the coast of Gabon for the period 3 December 2001 to 2 December 2005 [COM(2001) 765 – C5-0040/2002 – 2001/0301(CNS)](Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)***Report (A5-0063/2002) by Mrs Isler Béguin, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, on the communication from the Commission to the Council and the European Parliament on the biodiversity action plans in the areas of conservation of natural resources, agriculture, fisheries, and development and economic cooperation [COM(2001) 162 – C5-0467/2001 – 2001/2189(COS)](Parliament adopted the resolution)***Report (A5-0459/2001) by Mrs Sornosa Martínez, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, on the implementation of Directive 91/271/EEC on urban waste-water treatment [2000/2318(INI)](Parliament adopted the resolution)***Joint motion for a resolution(1) on tax on steel imports into the United States(Parliament adopted the resolution)***Report (A5-0062/2002) by Mr Trentin, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the state of the European economy – preparatory report with a view to the Commission recommendation on broad economic policy guidelines [2002/2014(INI)](Parliament adopted the resolution)***Report (A5-0048/2002) by Mr Della Vedova, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the Commission communication to the Council, the European Parliament and the Economic and Social Committee on tax policy in the European Union – Priorities for the years ahead [COM(2001) 260 – C5-0597/2001 – 2001/2248(COS)](Parliament adopted the resolution)***Report (A5-0409/2001) by Mr Carnero González, on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, on the legal personality of the European Union [2001/2021(INI)](Parliament adopted the resolution)***Report (A5-0050/2002) by Mrs Carlotti, on behalf of the Committee on Development and Cooperation, on the work of the ACP-EU Joint Parliamentary Assembly in 2001 [2001/2012(INI)](Parliament adopted the resolution)***Report (A5-0045/2002) by Mrs Langenhagen, on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries, on the fish processing industry [2000/2303(INI)](Parliament adopted the resolution)EXPLANATIONS OF VOTE- Lipietz report (A5-0060/2002)
Mr President, I recommend my fellow MEPs to vote against Amendments Nos 1 and 3, to vote in favour of Amendment No 2 and, of course, to vote in favour in the final vote.(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)***Report (A5-0009/2003) by Giacomo Santini, on behalf of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council directive on the right of citizens of the Union and their family members to move and reside freely within the territory of the Member States (COM(2001) 257 – C5-0336/2001 – 2001/0111(COD)) Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home AffairsBefore the vote on Amendment No 100:
Madam President, I too would like to congratulate the rapporteur on this excellent report. I do, however, have a few comments to make. We are certainly following the approach called for at Feira, but I have heard some speakers, including a colleague from my group, mention illiteracy. I would like to draw the attention of the House to this specific point: there is a disturbing degree of returning illiteracy affecting a large part of our European population as regards new technologies and new languages.The Commissioner mentioned ‘living’ in the knowledge-based society. Of course, living means interacting, but living also and above all means communicating, for, nowadays, it is those who communicate who count in society. In order to communicate, a person needs both knowledge and the ability to communicate, which means being in possession of the tools of communication – languages. This is the area where we have to make progress. This is what we must concentrate on.One consideration is training and another is teaching. If we want high-quality teaching, we must take steps to establish a common basic curriculum and review all the European education systems. As regards training, then, the individual States must strengthen these national agreements on training, working together with local communities, businesses, firms and all those who invest in the training of the young and not so young.I certainly support lifelong training, but I feel that if specific preparation, specific training in learning skills is not provided at the appropriate age, namely during school years, we will have even less chance of success with adults who are no longer open to learning. There therefore needs to be a whole strategy for strengthening primary and secondary education, and we can introduce lifelong learning measures after that.I would like to end with the comment that our countries spend less than 5% of GDP on teaching and training. It may well be that the Commission needs to take action and prepare the ground for a political and cultural debate at European level, because the knowledge-based Europe, the Europe of culture, the Europe of values, can only become reality if we invest more and differently in training ...(The President cut the speaker off)
Mr President, I welcome the report for pointing us at the central question which is the method for revision of the treaties in the future. We must realise that it will be virtually impossible – and certainly it will be impracticable – to forge agreement between 25 or 30 states upon essential questions of sovereignty. So, the key reform is Article 48 for treaty change. We must entrench the constituent articles of the treaty and we need a softer, lighter system for changing the treaty in regard to policy chapters. The first reform will calm citizens’ fears of creeping sovereignty transfers and the second should encourage citizens to engage more obviously with the political choices that we face in Brussels and in Strasbourg.The second reform that is essential is to remove the national veto from the clauses of reinforced cooperation; and the third will be to grant citizens the right of direct approach to the European Court.
I am in favour of a speedy EU enlargement by the twelve countries with which negotiations are now under way.In my opinion, the Commission's assessment that ten of those countries will meet the prescribed criteria by 2004 is doubtful. It is because the resolution supports this assessment that I cannot endorse it.
Mr President, I too, like Mr Kirkhope who took the floor a few moments ago, used to be a public prosecutor, but I reached and have again reached diametrically opposed conclusions. I call on those who truly believe in European integration to be consistent and to support the plan for a stronger European Union, that is, which can avail itself of all the necessary means in order to exert real influence on the scourge of fraud prejudicial to the Union’s financial interests, since until now, these interests have not been adequately protected by the Member States with their laws. It is a fact that each year the amount of fraud prejudicial to Community budgets – that is, in the final analysis, prejudicial to European taxpayers – amounts to approximately EUR one billion, as rightly stated by the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Theato – who has all my admiration and respect – and all the studies agree in saying that this phenomenon is set to steadily increase.This is why the existing legal instruments to combat fraud such as the conventions and protocols ratified by the Member States, the cumbersome nature of actually putting into practice mutual assistance in criminal matters, the nature of OLAF which, under its mandate, has to restrict itself to mere administrative checks and, above all, the fragmentation of the European criminal law-enforcement area are totally insufficient to effectively fight this phenomenon, and the excuses which have been proffered until now do not convince me that we should abandon the European Public Prosecutor either.The mere decision in principle is, however, not sufficient: if we really are in favour of establishing a European Public Prosecutor, we must be consistent in also providing him with the effective means to operate. We must therefore define with the greatest precision, at Community level, the crimes and penalties stipulated for criminal acts and moreover, draw up common provisions in the field of European Union criminal law and criminal procedural law. Consequently, I also believe, as the rapporteur Mrs Theato says, that in observing the separation of powers, the European Public Prosecutor and the deputy European prosecutors must be independent and carry out their mandate on the basis of the principle of mandatory prosecution. Furthermore, it will be necessary to subject the European Public Prosecutor’s actions to judicial review, both with regard to investigations and to committals for trial.In conclusion, honest citizens of the Union can only welcome the creation of an instrument which fights dishonest people at all times and in all areas.
Chairman of the Committee on Citizen's Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs. – Madam President, the committee which I have the honour to chair is very much aware of the importance of this matter and the urgency of its adoption before 25 March 2001, to allow the Nordic Union to be fully involved. We would have preferred to have been informed of this earlier by the Council. They have brought it to us at the very last moment.Nonetheless, in the circumstances it is our view that we would not wish to delay the vote on this, and we consider it best to treat this as a matter without report; we would therefore suggest that it be put straight to the vote in this part-session.
Mr President, Commissioner, Parliament, the Council and the Commission have cooperated splendidly to make the prevention and control of encephalopathy in animals more effective. The Regulation under discussion will help in the harmonisation of the legal basis. The Regulation takes account of scientific development. BSE tests for sheep and goats will be introduced as soon as the testing methods exist.The rapporteur is proposing two amendments. The first one deserves our strongest support, as it will provide even more protection, especially for those countries where there have been no cases of BSE as yet. The transport of animals is the main reason for the spread of animal diseases, which is why inspection has to be effective. Our group considers the second amendment to be unclear and for that reason does not support it, especially if the aim is to lower the age limit for BSE tests to animals which are 24 months old. This is not necessarily a sensible solution for all Member States. In saying this I certainly do not wish to oppose the proposal, if some Member States want to do this. Measures in the EU must, however, adapt to the BSE situation prevailing in Member States in compliance with the general policy contained in this Regulation.
In Sweden, freedom of expression has been protected by the constitution since 1766. The Directive on Insider Trading and Market Manipulation has given rise to debate and to some degree of unease, since there is a continued wish to protect journalists’ right to freedom of expression, even once the directive has come into force.We believe however that we have received both sufficient explanations of why the directive is of great importance in terms of the desire, for example, to prevent financial speculation harmful to the private individual, and sufficient assurances that the directive will not have any effect upon the Swedish constitution. The directive as a whole has an important role to play in creating a free and more efficient financial market demanding sound consumer and investment protection. The amendment by the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party would bring financial journalism within the scope of the directive, but responsibility for implementation would be left to existing self-regulating bodies. That is why we have today voted in favour of the Directive on Insider Trading and Market Manipulation.
Mr President, this motion is both topical and urgent. It is urgent because we have not yet defined how to control the spread of small arms and light weapons, nor have we strengthened the code to cover conventional arms.Death and destruction can be caused by almost any means. I saw recently the mass grave in Rwanda of up to half a million people bludgeoned to death by physical weapons, called machetes: just a single weapon in the hand of one man killing person after person. Half a million people were genocidally slaughtered by this method. Some time ago, 25 000 people died as a result of ground-to-ground missiles in the marshlands of southern Iraq. I saw where they had been killed by just one ground-to-ground missile. So death and destruction can come by simple or complex means. We have to address that. That is the urgency. The topicality of the motion comes because the year 2000 has now been declared by the United Nations to be the year for peace and to usher in a decade of UN aims for peace. Let us, in this motion, also put our hands behind that effort.
Mr President, Commissioner, Russia is refusing to sign up to the Multilateral Nuclear Environmental Programme in the Russian Federation, which would open the way for significant aid from the West to clean up nuclear waste in Russia, something which Commissioner Nielson also mentioned.Russia is also refusing to sign the agreement regarding EUR 190 million, mostly in the form of a donation, for the construction of the South West Waste Water Treatment Plant in St Petersburg, which would improve water quality in the Gulf of Finland.There has been no sign that Russia intends to ratify the Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants. This concerns pollutants which threaten humans and animals in northern Russia.There is also no news on the Espoo Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment in a Transboundary Context. We have every reason to believe that Russian interests have been implicated in the Prestige accident. Is Crown Resources a Russian company? Which Russian company was responsible for the 50 000 tonnes of oil on the tanker which had been loaded in St Petersburg?Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to put the following question to the Council and the Commission: Are our current tactics right whereby we are guaranteeing Russia’s position as a market economy and supporting the country before the WTO? It would seem that this carrot has not been enough. We need something stronger. It is time for the stick. I truly hope that, on the issue of cooperation in the area of economics, the environmental dimension will be taken up. We are doing everything we can, but the environmental dimension must not be forgotten. I hope that the examples I have listed convince you that our work has not been successful.
Mr President, I would first of all like to express my appreciation to Mrs Valenciano, who, in her excellent report, has tackled this sensitive issue in a clear and compelling manner. Thewill therefore support the report.The genital mutilation of women and girls is a terrible violation of fundamental human rights. More than 130 million women have already fallen victim to this, and another two million are added every year. Europe should therefore pull out all the stops to combat this phenomenon, wherever it appears.I too understand that some Members are considering voting against this report on account of the sections on asylum and extraterritoriality. However, I would like to reassure everyone: if we consider the present asylum practice, we see that in most of the fifteen Member States, genital mutilation is already a basis for asylum. I believe that to be appropriate. From that point of view, the report merely accommodates existing practices.It is true that at present, the principle of extraterritoriality only applies to child-sex tourism, but it should also cover mutilated women or women who are at risk. For this is the only way to prevent EU citizens, for example from Somalian extraction, from taking their daughters to Somalia during the summer holidays to have them mutilated. If these people realise that upon their return to Europe, they are at risk of being prosecuted, we then give the parents a weapon with which to protect their daughters against the pressure of society.Finally, I would like to direct a comment to those who do not want to deal with genital mutilation due to it constituting an expression of a certain culture or religion. In all countries where genital mutilation is practised, local groups are running campaigns to abolish it. It is therefore not a case of us imposing our Western standards. No, it is precisely these women whom we need to support by showing our solidarity tomorrow during the vote. The Koran too leaves no room for mutilation. Despite this, it is mainly in Islamic countries that it is practised. We must therefore call on the Imams to help eradicate this phenomenon. This is crucial, since we cannot afford negative stereotyping of Islamic beliefs in the current sensitive climate. Genital mutilation is not a religious phenomenon, it is a violation of a fundamental human right.
Mr President, Commissioner, I would first like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Markov, for drawing up this report. He has done a thorough job and, furthermore, listened to those of us who have a different opinion with regard to this issue.Road safety is an important matter. From the point of view of the transport sector it is also essential to improve the social status of drivers and the esteem they are held in. The Commission proposal, however, was badly drafted. In the committee debate we were able to improve the proposal, although, in the opinion of our group, the end result is still not acceptable. The proposal would increase inflexibility and lead to practices that would be difficult to monitor and which would cause the sector to incur additional costs. Furthermore, natural breaks at work cannot be taken advantage of. The new regulation will not improve road safety either.Our group is proposing that we reject the Commission proposal and ask the Commission to carry out a thorough study of the need to change current rest periods, taking digital tachographs into account. We have also put forward important proposals for improvements in case the rejection proposal is blocked. The basic idea behind them is that the provisions on rest periods in the current regulation are adequate provided that they are complied with and monitored effectively. More effective monitoring will lead to better results than if the provisions are merely made more stringent on paper.
Mr President, I should like to say to the Commissioner that this has gone on for far too long. I welcome the question, but what I would welcome even more is a promise of clear legislative action.In fact, as far as the Trading Standards Officers in my home city of Hull are concerned, this has been a running campaign against chicken cheats for over six years. That is long enough. During the last of those years I have had correspondence and contact on their behalf, both with our national authorities and with the Commissioner's bureau. Now, of course, recent publicity has highlighted the problem with chicken, but this deception is not confined to chicken – adulteration of other meats, particularly ham, is commonplace. This entire practice of adding water and, therefore, also other animal proteins to meats is misleading, deceptive and downright immoral in respect of its impact on some religious communities. Whilst labelling might be one possible improvement, my understanding, as other speakers have said, is that the best answer would be a ban on the adding of water above, say, 15%.I want to be able to go back to my home city – which is a large port through which much of this adulterated meat comes in – and tell our local authorities that they can now expect legislation to back up their long-running pursuit of this deceitful and harmful trade.
I agree totally with the sentiment of President Prodi that this is an historic opportunity and one that should not be lost. The Summit at Nice bears a responsibility for Europe and should in part fulfil a contract which we made at Helsinki last December and which we should deliver on.Two things were said at Helsinki to candidate states in Europe. Two locks were placed on the door of enlargement. One was that those candidate states themselves must adopt and implement the 'acquis communautaire'; that is their task shared with us. The second lock on the door is that we ourselves, as fifteen, needed to recognise the fundamental need to reform how we do business in order to continue to do business effectively, indeed to begin to do business even more effectively than at present. That is the unavoidable and minimum requirement of Nice and it is a major and central target. We in this Parliament will be required at the end of that process to give or not to give our assent.It is a major responsibility. I speak for a group which is totally committed to the earliest feasible enlargement of the European Union. I also say that we will listen with great care to what Mr Prodi and the Commission say by way of analysis of the Nice Treaty and to the candour which he promises. We ourselves will go through a very candid analysis. My appeal to you, Mr President-in-Office, is to present us in this Parliament a document worthy of this Parliament's assent and a document worthy of the scale of the historic challenge we face in Europe.That challenge is the reunification of our old continent; that challenge is an enlargement unparalleled in scale and that is what Nice must prepare us for. To do less than that is to fail Europe and this House, when it reviews Nice, cannot allow Europe to fail. I should like to say, with regard to a number of the specific points, that my group believes that, at this stage of evolution of the European Union, having one national for each Member State of the Commission still remains a sensible proposition and enhances the legitimacy of the Union.It should not become an issue which traduces the Union into a false contest between the interests of the large and the small, when the common European interest should be the central goal. My group, at this stage, would prefer a reweighting of votes, the double majority, but you have explained that other issues are under review. We support enhanced cooperation but insist that it must be open-ended and open to all and not exclusive and must be based and rooted in a way which respects the 'acquis communautaire'. We are deeply attached to the Charter of Fundamental Rights and we do not want simply to declaim the Charter. If we proclaim it as something with meaning, it must find roots, and we still commend to you to root it in Article 6. We commend to you to give the proclamation a meaning in substance, even if it is not yet fully and completely in such a case judiciable. We support the review of Article 7 because the Austrian lesson has taught the need of it.Nice is a test to see if our old continent is ready for a new, continental-scale enlargement. I believe that we can succeed but, Mr President-in-Office, we need your Presidency to mobilise the Council for Europe by animating the Nice Council to achieve something which is genuinely historic. There should not merely be constructive compromise, those were your words, there must be significant achievement. We will set the bar high and I hope together, Council, Commission and Parliament, we can clear that bar. I say this today, if the bar is compromised and is too low, we will refuse to consider it and we will do so for Europe and we will do it in good conscience.
Mr President, I would also like to thank Mr Blokland for preparing this subject. It has been a difficult process drafting the directive, as circumstances and practices in the Member States vary, and this affects many different interest groups. The end result is that we now have a reasonably balanced proposal for imposing strict limits regarding the incineration of hazardous and non-hazardous waste, improving the environment and enabling waste to also be used in the production of electricity and heat.One of the hardest problems was to define what co-incineration meant. In some countries the best alternative, environmentally speaking, is that carefully sorted combustible waste can be burned in small municipal plants that produce electricity and heating. In the first draft sketches for these plants there was a call for unnecessary, technically costly and, in some respects, impossible tests. The proposal has improved during the debate. It is also important that industry can still use non-hazardous waste in its own production of energy. In my opinion, the problem was also that the directive went into precise technical detail which it was hard to get unambiguous opinions on from the experts. I think we in Parliament should keep to the definition of the main arguments, allowing Member States to take account of differing circumstances and continue with best practice with regard to the environment.A directive on the incineration of waste will increase the costs of burning waste, but will cut hazardous emissions and improve the state of the environment. Our parliamentary debate achieved a reasonably balanced proposal that can serve as a basis for action throughout the Union.
My group has voted against the opinion on the Community patent because theproposals have been rejected on three fundamental counts.We need an affordable and uniform European patent system for the European market. The discussion surrounding the language regime has illustrated the fact that, unfortunately, political sentiments have carried more weight than practical arguments. Translation costs push up the price of the patent disproportionately, so that it will become too costly for European industry, the ultimate users. That is why my group is in favour of a limited language regime and cannot endorse the ‘Alicante’ regime of five languages (Amendments Nos 31 and 32).In addition, a uniform application of the regulation is of major significance. That is why my group has proposed that disputes surrounding the Community patent should fall within the central jurisdiction of the Community Intellectual Property Court, with the possibility of appeal to the Court of Justice (Amendments Nos 26 and 29).Finally, together with my fellow liberal MEPs, I prefer to create our own Community patent system instead of adopting the Munich Convention. A Community patent system would fall automatically within the structures of the EU. This means democratic control by the European Parliament and the authority of the Court of Justice in the last resort (Amendments Nos 23 and 24).
Mr President, in 1997 the process by which fixed and mobile telephony and television and the Internet were increasingly coming together was known by the buzz word 'convergence'. The Commission adopted a much heralded Green Paper on this subject which promised a brave new world of horizontal regulation across platforms. The reality was much more prosaic. Convergence did not happen quite to the extent predicted and the Commission confined itself largely to revising the telecommunications regulation package to take account of new technology.Since that time, however, we have witnessed a wave of mergers and take-overs in the media with the emergence of vast conglomerates such as AOL Time Warner, CBS, Viacom and Vivendi Universal. Yet the Commission has not explored the idea of cross-media ownership and media concentration in any detail since its 1994 follow-up to the Green Paper on pluralism and media concentration.The Commission's silence on such an important issue seems particularly strange because the European Parliament has been calling for a directive on a level playing field and media pluralism since the 1990s. I recognise that regulating the media is a highly sensitive issue. The media is not like any other industry as it lies at the heart of our culture, our way of life. A diverse and pluralistic media is fundamental to democracy, freedom and cultural diversity. But in view of the trend towards media concentration, towards the dominance of certain media conglomerates, my group believes it is high time that we come back to this issue.What are the principles which should underlie our approach? First of all we must recognise that a thriving media is the hallmark of a free society. If control of the media becomes too narrowly restricted in the hands of a small number of people this poses a danger for democracy. The media needs to be sufficiently diverse for all important points of view in society to be effectively presented. Otherwise there is a danger that dominant media players can restrict access to information and thereby move public opinion.Avoiding media concentration is also important to our economy. Some have argued that with the explosion of different types of media, including digital, satellite and cable television, as well as the Internet, monopolistic control is impossible. However, many of these different channels of communication are now controlled by the same media conglomerates, which can thereby cross-promote these services and provide incentives or pressure advertisers to buy space or air time in other media they control.Last but not least, media concentration has implications for our cultural diversity. A Europe in which the media is dominated by a few major players risks being one in which certain regions, cultures and minority groups are granted less access to the media. A diverse media is likely to result in more home-grown original content, whereas large media groups may not resist the temptation to fill their air time with cheap imported programmes and repeats.For the  Group there is a clear case to look again at this issue. My questions to the Commission today are: what action does the Commission propose to take? If the Commissioner takes the view, as I suspect he may, that there is no legal basis for action, I would remind him of the articles of the Treaty governing the single market. I would remind him too that Article 11 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights guarantees media pluralism and if that Charter is integrated into a new constitutional treaty, as Liberal Democrats hope it will be, would that not provide a necessary legal base for action? Will the Commission undertake to bring forward a White Paper updating its 1994 communication in the light of technological change and developments in the industry?It seems to me that we cannot ignore the dangers that media concentration poses to our society. The power of media ownership now frequently extends across national borders. Given that a free and diverse media is essential to our continent's democracy, prosperity and cultural vitality, it is high time that politicians face up to their responsibilities and return to this issue.(Applause)
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. – Mr President, I am not going to make any great claims for this draft directive. I fully sympathise with what the Commissioner has said and those who argue that it will not create a level playing field in cross-border takeovers in the Union. There is no doubt about that. Member States will still be able to sanction their companies to take anti-bid measures with the approval of only the board and not of the shareholders. Therefore, it fails to deal with a major potential obstacle to cross-border takeovers and restructuring. The choice of whether to apply the rules is only a fig leaf to disguise that reality.Many Member States, including some like Germany who proclaim themselves in favour of more political integration, are against foreigners taking over their own companies. In Britain we have many hang-ups but, fortunately, not that one. We have been losing foreign direct investment due to our failure to join the euro, but the signal that this part of the directive sends out about France and Germany may help to sustain Britain's share. For the euro area in particular this failure is a serious own goal.Why then is this draft worth supporting? The provisions in this text to protect minority shareholders are important and will encourage more cross-border portfolio share ownership. By ensuring that there is a threshold in each Member State at which someone taking control of a company has to launch a full bid for the other shares, this directive stops creeping control of a company. It therefore means that a new shareholder with perhaps only 30% of the stock cannot decide, without providing an exit for all the other shareholders, to pay themselves special dividends or to sell off assets cheaply to another private company that they happen to control. By reassuring investors about those practices, by no means unknown in many Union financial markets, the directive will encourage more cross-border share ownership. That is crucial to the efficiency and returns on pension funds, for the support of the retired and for insurance funds for the compensation of the distressed.Overall, however, this is clearly a modest measure. It does no harm, it does some good. It sends the wrong signals but, in reality, it changes too little; it does not change anything in the reverse direction. Certainly calling it a takeover directive is a misnomer and would probably be a breach of the United Kingdom's Trades Descriptions Act. But all that is politically attainable at present. For those who would like to see more radical opening-up of cross-border mergers, there is also the promise of a clearer view in the next Parliament and the prospect that the markets themselves can add to the pressures on companies to apply best practice in consulting their shareholders. Transparency in this matter, as in others, may help, and we must not let the best be the enemy of the good.Let me finally reiterate something on the debate with the Socialist Group on employee consultation. Mr Lehne, to whom I would like to pay tribute, has certainly worked very hard, as I did, on a text that would have satisfied theGroup, even though the position on takeovers, as we have seen, is effectively unchanged. Takeovers will not be made any easier but, nevertheless, theGroup wanted a form of words to provide some political concession, as if they were being made easier. In reality, that form of words in their amendments merely echoes what is already in the information and consultation directive. It provides employees with nothing new, but potential differences in the legal text between this draft directive if it is voted and that one could mean a risk of litigation over takeovers if it is voted through. For that reason, we should vote against these amendments and support what is, I agree, a flawed and partial compromise, but, nevertheless, one which makes some progress.
Mr President, what I have to say has to do with the safety of MEPs and the measures taken by Parliament to that end. On 19 January, I left the Parliament building in Brussels around 8 p.m. by the exit onto the Wiertzstraat, going towards the rue de Wavre. Barely 100 metres from the Parliament building, having halted at a red light, I heard an enormous bang and the passenger-side window of my car was smashed in. My handbag, which had been on the floor, was snatched. I can assure you that a lady’s handbag contains everything imaginable – cards, passport, and so on. Such a thing can of course happen anywhere, but I find it an extraordinarily serious matter that it should happen so close to the Parliament building. What I find incomprehensible is that this happens time and time again; I could name more than one other Dutch lady MEP to whom it has happened.I came back to the Parliament building, where I had a very kind reception; about that I have no complaints. The security guards came when called but – you are probably not aware of this – I could not make a phone call outside Belgium. I could not, therefore, make a call to block my credit cards, and I think that you will understand why that was my first concern. The police were then called and I was able to go with them to the police station, albeit only by following them in my damaged car. I managed to get to the police station, where there was an officer who spoke Flemish, but not the sort that has any similarity with Dutch. He was a kind man, and there was nothing wrong with him, but it all got very involved. As I of course had nothing left on me – no money, no driving licence – I was told that I would be given an escort to Carglass, but that was not forthcoming. It was at around midnight that I got to my hotel, where I was dealt with more efficiently.I have sustained enormous loss, and I now want to ask you to ensure first of all that, in any such situation an international call can be made from the exits to the Parliament building if an MEP wishes to do so, and that assistance is available in getting to the police station, for I could have been a Dane with absolutely no knowledge of Dutch or a citizen of any other country. It would of course also be very useful if money were available to make it possible to take a taxi. Moreover, I think it is of the utmost importance that there should be better security protection for MEPs. As I have just said, the loss is enormous. I will not say how much is involved, but I expect Parliament to see to it that I am fully reimbursed.
Mr President, as a Member from one of the outermost regions, I must point out that this is a very special afternoon as far as regional policy is concerned, because of the debate on two Community initiatives, URBAN and INTERREG.I would like to remind you that these initiatives are aimed, firstly, in the case of URBAN, at improving the quality of life of the citizens who live in the poorer parts of various European cities, and, in the case of INTERREG, at facilitating cohesion and recognising the diversity and potential of the regions of the European Union, particularly by including the outermost regions in strands B and C.Like the rapporteur, we deplore the fact that it has been excluded from strand IIIA. With regard to INTERREG, we are very happy that there is a reference to the creation of a European monitoring centre concerned with cooperation. I would like to thank the rapporteurs, particularly Mr Decourrière, for his sensitivity towards the regions and for accepting our amendments. I hope that the Commissioner will accept the proposal which we are making.
Thank you for the answer. I certainly absorbed the messages of Biarritz and I was encouraged by the things that occurred there. I would just ask Minister Moscovici two further questions. Firstly, would he agree that it would be more sensible to restrict the use of closer cooperation solely to those issues where unanimity applies within the Council? As he appreciates, this is a growing feeling within Parliament. And the second question concerns the reaction of the candidate countries to the debate inside the EU Union concerning closer cooperation. Do you find that they welcome the prospect or are they perhaps frightened of it?
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the conflict which has brought bloodshed to the Great Lakes region for more than a year now appears to be reaching a favourable outcome. We are delighted at this of course, but much work remains to be done.On the one hand, the Lusaka Agreements must lead, in the short-term to a lasting and verifiable cease-fire. In this context, the rapid deployment of international observers is essential and even of paramount importance. The European Union must participate in this process alongside the United Nations and the OAU to verify the withdrawal of foreign troops from the country as well. Congo must cease to be a mere pawn, in order, once again, to play a genuine role in finding a fair and equitable solution for all parties involved in the conflict.On the other hand, it is necessary and even imperative that the Congolese resume dialogue among themselves. A debate on national reconciliation must involve civilian society, which is so vital in this country.Finally, and this is no doubt a more unusual path, the European Union could begin thinking about concluding a Stability Pact for Africa, modelled on the example of the Balkans. Member States who have a special historical relationship with this region must, to my mind, face up to their responsibilities. The whole of Africa is calling out to us. The recent death of two young Guineans in an aeroplane bound for Brussels, a tragic fate recalled by the President when she opened this part-session on Monday, is a cry of alarm which demands our attention, as European officials, and which must force us to act.(Applause)
There were many of us, not only here in Europe but throughout the world, who put our faith in President Khatami. That applied above all, of course, to the Iranian people. We all hoped that he would be able to lead Iran onto a more democratically open and tolerant path. Unfortunately, we have all, time after time after time, been disappointed. The latest reports are frightening. Journalists, intellectuals and critics of the regime disappear and are tortured, imprisoned and put on trial for trivial reasons. The death penalty is frequently applied. In that respect, Iran is one of the world’s worst offenders.The latest reports of women having been stoned to death according to ancient sharia laws are utterly hair-raising. The fact that this is happening in 2002 is completely unacceptable. A whole world turns in abhorrence upon Iran.Relations between the EU and Iran are characterised by a certain amount of caution, which is good. If these relations are to become meaningful, the issue of human rights must always be at the top of the agenda, however. I would also draw attention to the fact that Parliament has its veto when it comes to acknowledging possible agreements, and this is something we shall use if the situation does not improve.
Mr President, after congratulating our colleagues Mrs Zabell and Mr Mennea on their reports and the suggestions they contain, of which I very largely approve, I shall make do with two observations. Firstly, I should like to stress the need for Community participation in the World Anti-Doping Agency, which would enable the European Union to make a vigorous and coherent contribution to the struggle against doping.Secondly, as I did yesterday, I plead again today for the inclusion in the Treaty of a legal basis relating specifically to sport. I am thinking here of a compatibility clause of the sort that exists in the cultural and environmental domains, a clause that would make it possible to take due account – and I stress the word ‘due’ – of the specific nature of sport in the formulation of the general policy or specific policies of the Community.
President, this Parliament, by huge cross-party majorities, has made clear that it will no longer accept that animals should be made to suffer for the sake of developing yet more products to flatter human vanity. It is a moral issue; human health will be protected, because after the deadlines for the end of animal testing, new cosmetic products simply cannot be put on the market until alternative testing methods are in place.This is the seventh amendment to the original directive; each time the deadline drew near an extension of time was granted to the industry, so incentives to invest in the development of alternatives were removed. We are today drawing a line that must not again be shifted. Animal welfare groups are unhappy with the outcome of the negotiations between Parliament and the Council, but I hope they recognise that real progress has been made. The Commission's proposal has been transformed, there will be a complete ban on animal testing within the EU and a ban on the sale of cosmetics tested on animals outside the EU, six years after entry into force.Month after month, ministers told us that such a marketing ban would be contrary to WTO rules, but these objections were at last overcome during our middle-of-the-night negotiations.I pay tribute to our rapporteur Dagmar Roth-Berendt, and I thank our chief lobbyists Marlou Heinen of the RSPCA, Emily McIvor of BUAV, and Charles Laroche of Unilever who presented the acceptable face of an industry many have grown to mistrust.There are practical steps now to be taken. In particular the authorisation procedures for new testing methods must be accelerated. Pressure to develop alternatives must now be put on the chemicals and pharmaceuticals industries, which use the same tests.The cosmetics industry should recognise the strength of feeling in this Parliament. The directive permits no postponement of the deadlines, and the Commission must understand that if it comes back in a few years' time with proposals for new legislation to extend the time limits yet again it will meet with a very hostile response.
Mr President, Commissioner, the White Paper has been the catalyst for a stimulating debate which has produced a strategic vision allowing us to focus on the goal of creating the conditions for free movement of goods and persons, which are essential if we are to achieve the genuine integration of the enlarged Europe and pursue territorial cohesion, avoiding any land wastage and reducing undesirable effects on the environment, security or public health. This is a hugely ambitious goal and 2010 seems a long way away but, considering the time frames for the various changes to structure and infrastructure, we can say that we are already extremely behind. From this point of view, the delay to the progress of the strategic dossier – and other dossiers too – imposed by the Transport Council is cause for concern, while we can only welcome with great enthusiasm the impetus being given by the Commission to all these issues. It is in this direction, with this aim that I feel it is worth continuing to explore what appear to be as yet theoretical, unrefined concepts, such as decoupling or the endeavour to reduce the impact of transport on development, which certainly nobody wants to limit, for in that way we will be exploring collateral policies in the field of land-use planning and in the area of optimising infrastructure through the use of new technologies.It is equally important that we help to balance the choice of mode of transport by internationalising external costs and exploiting the differences in internal charges and costs for coordination of more compatible modes of transport too.These are pressing, problematic matters and we are in danger of getting bogged down in them, but they are crucial and decisive for the issues we are addressing. I hope that, as has been said, the Commission communication on the methodology for charging for external costs which will allow us to establish a system of apportioning transport costs which is fairer than at present, replacing the generic charges we are currently paying with appropriate, specific charges, will not be long in coming.
Madam President, let me begin by saying on behalf of my group that we fully share the perspective of Mr Prodi that certainly from tomorrow we stand on the threshold of a new beginning; a new beginning in particular between our two institutions, Parliament and the Commission, and a new beginning for Europe itself.On the issues which the President-designate has raised of reform, which should be brought forward by Commissioner Kinnock next February with due consultation, the policy programme of next January, the moral and political imperative of addressing the enlargement challenge and preparation for the Intergovernmental Conference, I pledge my group to a positive and constructive engagement with the Commission in this regard. Indeed we look forward to getting down to serious and immediate work on questions such as East Timor, south-eastern Europe and the Balkans in particular.But today is an opportunity for this House to review the investiture process and to place on record some of the questions or observations that arise from that. In due course, within the House and in the appropriate fora, my own group intends to contribute to a debate which we hope will be initiated on lessons which we ourselves, as Parliament, must learn from the hearings process. We certainly would hope for the future that we might be able to develop procedures to allow for what might be described as more questioning in depth of nominees. That said, however, we believe that the exercise just completed has been a positive and valuable exercise.Some in this House – I believe from the outset that they have been a minority, though perhaps rather vocal in terms of the media – have talked of targeting individual nominees. This has not been the approach nor the view of my group. We believe that ab initio this kind of process, which, as I said, was a minority pursuit, to be a sign of weakness and not of strength.Tomorrow, when we vote on the college, the  group will vote for a college and we will not seek at this point to differentiate, to pick or to choose between nominees. We respect in the act of voting tomorrow the essential collegiality of the European Commission and regard that as an essential value for its working method. But we have some questions that arise from the hearings and some observations.In the procedures to date, many of the nominee Commissioners were kind enough to, in effect, promise in advance a charter of reform for their own areas and have alluded to specific policy commitments. We have taken note of those commitments and we expect to see them reflected in the work programme in January. We shall check that programme against those commitments which were given in the course of the hearings.It is obvious from the hearings – indeed without them it is obvious – that there are major areas of overlap and therefore potential conflict in operational responsibilities within the college. Here again we hope that, in working through the programme for January, where these overlaps arise they will be explicitly identified and addressed in order that potential conflicts in spheres of responsibility should not slow down the reform process.I recall in particular questions about the overlaps between food law and food safety, the various overlaps that one can imagine with the World Trade Organisation and a host of other responsibilities, not least those of the Environment Commissioner. The President mentioned the importance of electronic commerce and information technology. These issues must clearly be addressed as to responsibility.Many colleagues have also raised questions about the desirability of separating the ex ante responsibility for budget control from the ex post responsibility for budget implementation or formulation within the Commission. Many in my own group have raised this question with me. I raise it today but hasten to add that this is in no way a reflection on the qualities or capacity of the nominee Commissioner charged to deal with both of these issues in the current sphere of responsibilities.There has been a certain diversity of views, Mr Prodi, among your nominee Commissioners about their personal political accountability in the future. They all accepted in the hearings that they will be responsible for themselves and their cabinets. Some did not quite accept what I believe is also a necessary requirement, that in the matter of policy formulation and implementation they carry a general responsibility for their departments, answerable to the college but accountable to this Parliament.Specifically, my group, has for many months now raised the question of individual responsibility. Again I return to that point today. I have already said we support as necessary the collegiate nature of the Commission. However we reassert, as we have done consistently, that an effective college requires the assumption of individual political responsibility. The buck must stop somewhere. Where everyone is responsible it can result in a system where no one is responsible. We do not contest, President Prodi, your prerogative to act in this regard. But we insist that, whatever the current state of law, the law needs changing and that if a Commissioner fails to enjoy the confidence of this House you must act accordingly. We urge you to do that. It is your prerogative but it is our right to insist that the confidence of this House be respected and its absence be respected also. Indeed, here I hope you will not adopt the Stoiber formulation referred to by Mr Barón Crespo.I should add, arising from matters raised in the hearings but not concluded, in respect of some of the individual nominee Commissioners that should any legal or criminal proceedings arise – which I do not anticipate would necessarily be the case but which would pose problems for the integrity of the Commission - we would expect the President of the Commission to act in such circumstances.We intend to negotiate later today and tomorrow a political resolution. That will formulate and specify a number of requests, not just on the area of individual responsibility but also specifically to do with areas of transparency and access to documents. When we vote on those my group will expect to hear from you a specific detailed and positive response before our final vote.In conclusion, we share the vision expressed here today. It is high time that we had this new beginning. It is the time for us to return to serious work. It is time that we recognise and rebuild as institutions – Commission and Parliament – our common European vocation. The  group pledges itself to that task.(Applause)
Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my group I wish to thank Mr Stockmann for an excellent and competently prepared report. It is vital to have careful coordination of slots to improve efficiency and safety at airports. Take-off and landing times are also of considerable economic importance for air carriers. Our group supports the rapporteur’s efforts to adopt the key elements of the Commission proposal: an independent coordinator, priority being given to new entrants, and the legal status of slots specifically as a right of use.It is important to have a system of allocation of slots that is as flexible as possible for those companies, for example, that do business abroad. The right of Member States to limit ‘grandfather rights’ to operate aircraft of a specified minimum size serves little purpose. Discriminating against small aircraft could, for example, lead to problems for a small country’s traffic heading for another Member State.Our group has tabled two amendments. The purpose of Amendment No 56 is to clarify the Commission proposal regarding the allocation of slots to new entrants. The amendment preserves the idea of priority being given them, but at the same time specifies that priority should be dependent on the number of slots requested. In my opinion, Amendment No 45 weakens the position of new entrants. I would also ask what the Commission’s view is of this proposal.The Commission has started to take action to avoid congestion at airports. The purpose of the new market mechanisms is to more effectively coordinate supply and demand regarding slots. Finding long-term solutions has nevertheless been a very slow process in recent years. Amendment No 57 represents the desire of our group to have the Commission commit to submitting a more comprehensive proposal on slots. Our group believes the present system must be radically revised. There has to be greater access to the slots market than there is at present.
Mr President, even if Doctor Hachem Aghajari does not receive the death penalty, Iran nonetheless remains condemned to domination by its ultra-conservative religious leaders. The success of the student demonstrations cannot conceal the fact that the human rights situation has not improved but has, in fact, deteriorated.The stoning of women, public hanging, torture and other barbaric practices mean that Iran still does not fulfil the elementary demands of civilisation. It is therefore astonishing that the European Union has not tabled a resolution concerning the situation in Iran in the UN General Assembly Third Committee. Many Member States say that they have high expectations of the human rights dialogue but, in reality, instead have high expectations of their lucrative business interests.The European Union must not let itself be taken for a ride. On the day before the European delegation of negotiators arrived in Teheran, five people were publicly hanged. The dialogue must not be a reason for failing to put the human rights situation in Iran on the agenda in international fora. That is why, in the spring, the European Union must submit a resolution to the Commission on Human Rights in Geneva. Naturally, it is important not to isolate Iran. Contacts must be established, but good use must be made of these, and the reformers must be given as much support as possible.A political dialogue clause in a future agreement is not enough. In my group’s judgment, no cooperation agreement can be concluded as long as there is still gross and systematic abuse of human rights. Aid to terrorist organisations is also an obstacle to such cooperation. The situation in the country is becoming more explosive by the day, and it is therefore also high time that there were genuine reforms in Iran. There can only be constructive dealings with Iran if the truth is allowed to prevail and if supreme authority lies with the people.
Mr President, the organisation of the working hours of road transport workers affects the working conditions of these workers and also the efficiency of logistics. The area of application of the directive is the most essential question in this whole matter. The compromise achieved in the Council leaves self-employed hauliers outside the scope of the directive. In my opinion Parliament should also approve this compromise. Self-employed hauliers must not be subjected to artificial regulations limiting their total working hours. This would lead to an increase in bureaucracy and make it more difficult for small businesses to operate. It would also interfere with self-employed people’s use of their free time in a way which would be impossible to monitor. The issue has no bearing on road safety because the driving time of independent self-employed hauliers is already regulated under other rules.Secondly, I would like to mention the further limitation of working hours in terms of night work. This would increase traffic jams, weaken road safety and increase costs.
Madam President, I am very grateful to the Commissioner for his statement. To some extent it addresses the matter and to some extent it fails to do so.I think it is very important as a matter of public record that we should have a declaration in the clearest terms from the Commission in a body, that it is continuing to act as the essential European prime mover of enlargement. I applaud the view expressed by the Commissioner that we all share the task of selling this historic challenge but I deplore the fact that someone as pre-eminent as Commissioner Verheugen, at least according to a number of newspapers today, should say the Member States should not leave the Commission to do the dirty job alone.This language is not appropriate to the sensitivities and subtleties required in this historic debate and it constitutes loose talk which opens up an appalling prospect, not least in the hearts and minds of those who support enlargement, and especially in candidate States and in their capital cities. That is why this matter is of exceptional political importance this week.It is important to understand that a Commissioner, Commissioner Verheugen in this case, has a role to speak for Europe. Of course he is a German politician, but the German Government is empowered and in a position to speak for Germany. I believe it is entirely proper that Mr Poettering should demand that this issue be dealt with here this week and I would urge the Commission to give the necessary assurance, not only because I agree with the sentiments of Commissioner Patten, but because the world at large wishes to be reassured that there is no dysfunction at the heart of Europe on the question of enlargement.
Mr President, Commissioner, for ten years, a whole world of citizens, politicians and journalists have taken an active interest in, and been horrified by, the fate of Aung San Suu Kyi. Despite the enormous support she enjoys among the Burmese people and the crushing victory she and her party, the National League for Democracy (NLD), won in 1990, she has not been able to take on her leadership role formally. On various occasions, she has been kept isolated, and now she has been under house arrest for a whole year. The Nobel Peace Prize and our own Sacharov Prize have drawn attention to her and to her courageous struggle, but they appear not to have swayed the Burmese junta.The general human rights situation in Burma is alarming. Representatives of political parties are kept in isolation, thousands of people are in jail for political reasons, dissidents are persecuted and religious and ethnic minorities harassed. Forced labour and torture are commonplace. According to Amnesty, there are around 2 000 political prisoners, including journalists and several elected parliamentarians.The EU Troika and UN observers now confirm that there are some signs of change. Several prisoners have been released, attitudes towards the NLD have softened and several party offices have been allowed to open. From a situation in which there was a total refusal to engage in dialogue, discussions have now taken place, and a process of reconciliation may be underway. It would be very welcome in a country which, for so many years, has been governed by one of the world’s toughest military juntas.It may be the case that a window of opportunity has now been opened. In anticipation of further signs and surer indications that the junta really would like to enter into dialogue and accept the demands of the NLD, the EU should not however relinquish its common policy. When the Council meets at the end of this month to discuss Burma, it is important to keep the sanctions in place for the time being and to keep the pressure up so that the dialogue continues, genuine steps towards democracy are taken, human rights are respected and, especially, Aung San Suu Kyi is released and allowed to take her place as the elected leader of the Burmese people.
Madam President, we have moved a long way from when the rapporteur brought a report first to the Employment and Social Affairs Committee. I think we still have problems for the entertainment and leisure industry but the rest of industry and the workers will find this directive very easy to live with.If the original proposals had gone through, industry across the EU would have been decimated and workers thrown out of work – particularly in the construction industry, cement industry, mining and quite a lot of engineering industry – so thank goodness we have returned to some sort of sensible solution and moved back to the Council position where hearing protection can be taken into account when measuring decibel levels. I am glad we have moved back to the weekly measurement granted by Member States if they so deem necessary.But the amendment granting the leisure and entertainment business a five-year delay for implementation while the Commission looked at the best way to regulate this industry, taking into account the special problems faced by the pub and club industry in particular, was unfortunately lost that in conciliation, although, with a code of conduct, it is better than was first proposed. I grant you that. But at the present moment the current noise directive is not being implemented in the pub and club industries, neither in the UK nor in Denmark or in many other Member States. The reason it is not being implemented is because it is not workable.My problem is that if we add another layer of bureaucracy for the pub and club industry like this, we will cause tremendous problems. That is why I personally refuse to sign off the conciliation because I believe we could have got more from the Council.I was on my own apart from one notable exception so I appreciate the vote tomorrow will not make any difference at all to the final outcome. We have, through a lot of hard work, got a better deal for industry and workers alike. We could have got a better deal for the entertainment and leisure sector and I am sorry we did not take that opportunity.
Mr President, in 1999, eighty-five percent of all executions took place in only five countries: China, Iran, Saudi Arabia, the Democratic Republic of Congo and the United States. It is, of course, correct that the European Union does not permit the death penalty within its borders. The death penalty is the cruellest, most inhumane and degrading penalty. It violates the right to life, is irrevocable and can involve innocent people. Furthermore, it has never been proven that it is a better deterrent against crime than any other kind of penalty. It was stated a moment ago that in the United States, there might be a better legal procedure or that very serious crimes are sometimes committed there. But that is exactly the point. We, as government, cannot afford to stoop to the level of the criminals we punish. That is precisely the civilisation which we have achieved here in Europe and that is the civilisation which we must hold on to. We therefore give our warm support to Commissioner Patten’s policy.
Mr President, I want first of all to thank Mr Ruffolo for all the dedicated work he has done on this report. Allow me to remind you that it was also at Mr Ruffolo’s request that a statistical comparison of the Member States’ cultural activities was made. This was a very interesting and relevant document. The Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party has no doubt that culture is a fundamental component of the EU’s identity. Our group believes that respect for, and promotion of, cultural and linguistic diversity and of the common cultural inheritance is an essential factor in integration and the promotion of human individuality. We want to see a European cultural policy which is not in any way aimed at uniformity but which offers the kind of identity that arises in the encounter of differences – a policy which contributes to social cohesion and which is essential to the sense of being a European citizen.Cultural policy is one of the EU’s small policy areas, and that is the way it should be, too. The EU must expend its energies on the key areas: the internal market, economic policy, foreign policy and asylum and immigration policy, and that is why we must also be very cautious about otherwise well-meaning initiatives in the area of cultural policy. Allow me also to remind you that people want decisions to be taken as close to themselves as possible. That was what the President of the Commission, Mr Prodi, emphasised here in the House earlier today. The EU must not be involved in governing Europe in detail. That is best left to the Member States. That is why the  Group has tabled amendments designed completely to remove conclusions 8 and 10. We believe that these are conclusions intended to broaden the scope of Article 151 of the treaty, and that is not something we want to be a party to. We also believe that the proposals are contrary to the principle of subsidiarity, something we take very seriously. Finally, we do not consider that the time is ripe for extending the economic framework of the EU’s activities in the area of cultural policy, something to which the proposal also refers. TheGroup cannot support the report if conclusions 8 and 10, or the compromise amendments to these, are adopted.
Mr President, today, on Women’s Day, we have a duty to set out and evaluate certain issues in the field of equality. What we want is equal treatment and equal opportunities in all areas of life, which, let us not forget, should be a fundamental right.As regards the representation of women in politics, for example, the under-representation of women in the political decision-making process constitutes a serious shortcoming, which, unfortunately, is mirrored across all of our European democracies. We must, therefore, persevere in our efforts to build a democratic Europe. This process should be characterised by balanced representation in Parliament, both for women and for men.The governments of Member States and accession countries must evaluate, as soon as possible, the differential impact of electoral systems on the political representation of women in elected bodies and the possibility of adapting or reforming these systems. Appropriate measures must be taken in order to ensure balanced participation. Let us not forget that the aim is to being able at least to maintain a proportion of at least 30% of women among elected members at the forthcoming elections. There is a danger that under-representation in accession countries may reduce this percentage, which we have striven so hard to achieve since the 1979 elections. We must raise awareness among accession countries, so that their governments may take action to combat crimes against women. Yes, some progress has been made, but further resources must be put in place.To conclude, I should also like to express, on a more general level, my solidarity with the struggles of all women around the world, whose rights are routinely trampled underfoot. I refer to all those women subjected to barbaric customs and traditions; women who are victims of war, of Aids, of ill-treatment, of trafficking, and, more broadly, of human stupidity.
I should like to raise the same issue without, however, repeating what has already been said on the matter. Two lads from my constituency are also still in captivity in Greece on account of the same crime: this is evidently the seriousness with which this matter is being dealt with in Greece.I would point out that the next item on the agenda is the European arrest warrant. In relation to what is currently happening in Greece, that is a topic which we, as well as the Council, will have to treat with extreme caution to prevent the situation from causing European distortion in the field of criminal law policy.
Madam President, I request that this is not taken as a topical and urgent motion. The matter is potentially a very serious one, involving perhaps a breach of Article 10 of the Treaties, and I believe it requires more serious consideration than can be given to a topical and urgent motion on a Thursday afternoon.This matter has been drawn to the attention of the Committee on Citizens' Rights and Freedoms, Justice and Home Affairs, which I have the honour to chair. We have received the opinion of the Director of the Monitoring Centre on the matter, we have asked our budget rapporteur to investigate more widely the question of the Austrian government's attitude to the European Union Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia.We need to know the full facts regarding the resignation of Mr Pelinka, the Austrian member of the Centre's Executive Board. It may be that we need to refer the matter to the Group of Three Wise Persons charged with investigating the situation in Austria. But a topical and urgent motion would shed more heat than light on the matter, and seems to me to be an inappropriate vehicle. Therefore I would appeal to Members to vote against this request.(Parliament gave its assent)The other two requests therefore lapse, and there are no further requests for amendments to the agenda.(The order of business was adopted thus amended)
Mr President, Commissioner, it is extremely important that we explain to the people of the European Union and of the applicant countries what the European Union stands for. This is a task which the Commission has been all too lax about. During the hearings of the new Commission in September 1999, Romano Prodi said, and I quote: “…the new Commission will be putting much more effort into communicating properly with the citizens of Europe, giving them open access to information”. I should like to have seen the President of the Commission here this evening. For now, one and a half years later, nothing has happened. Almost a year ago, the Commission promised, in its work programme for 2000, to present a strategy, but nothing has happened. This year again, the Commission has promised to do something about the matter, but rumour now has it that, when it comes to this area, there is, if anything, chaos in the organisation of the Commission.Allow me just to point out a couple of the practical problems with the EU’s information policy, or lack of information policy. The information is too centralised, it is all prepared in Brussels and it is not directed at target groups according, for example, to gender, age, geographical considerations and the level of education of population groups. There are also some thoroughly topical and practical problems. The large Europa server on the Internet is updated too slowly and erratically, and bureaucrats can remove information from the Europa server as it suits them. There are too many bureaucratic obstacles to accessing information. EU information is now treated as a branch of the EU’s Offices for Official Publications. Is it reasonable that copies of the Official Journal of the EC which are more than three months old should have to be paid for? The Official Journal should be available free of charge on the Europa server. Too much information is only available in the EU’s main languages. Go, for example, into the Rapid database, where you will see, for example, that even Romano Prodi’s speeches are only available in two or three languages. We have eleven official languages in the EU, and all eleven must be used.The key words where the EU’s information policy is concerned must be decentralisation and coordination, including in exchanges of information between the Commission and Parliament. There must be a determination to make optimum use of the information technology now available. I am very anxious to know how the Commission will get to grips with the task. I assume and hope that, as Mrs Pack also mentioned, the Commission’s offices in the major European cities will be involved and that they will be given tasks and responsibilities, as well as means to address and inform the man or woman in the street. Commissioner, this task has now become a matter of urgency.
Mr President, the discharge which we are discussing today, as far as agriculture is concerned, pertains to 1993, 1994 and 1995 and you may well wonder why we are so late. The reason for this is that we delayed the discharge for 1992 for a long time, because we had made certain requirements of the Commission which up to last year it had failed to meet. We are pleased to note that this has meanwhile been rectified. So what exactly were Parliament’s requirements?Firstly, we asked for 15 extra jobs to be created in the inspection department within agriculture and for the financial corrections to be increased from 10% to 25% maximum, in case something went wrong with agricultural expenditure. This has since been done and we are grateful for this. It still causes Parliament some concern that the jobs have not yet been filled and that it is extremely difficult to do so.In general terms, the error rate for agriculture is below the general error rate for the budget. Where the general rate is 5%, as already mentioned, that for agriculture is 3%. This is moving in the right direction. This may also partly be due to the fact that agricultural policy has changed over the years. I believe it is easier to keep income policy in check than it is price policy. There has since been an increase in expenditure for development within rural areas but I will come back to this.Special attention should also be paid to the European revenue. Although the own resources are falling, they are still an important source of income and it has now been decided that certain Member States are allowed to retain 25%. This is all the more reason why the Commission should keep tabs on all the money coming in to which the European Union is entitled.What does the Committee on Budgets mainly want? First, the Commission should work towards driving back the current error rate within the short term. In my opinion, we should be able to have a 1% error rate within a number of years. One way of achieving this is to establish an estimated reliability level for each sector. This is something which the Commission could undertake itself. What is the error rate in the milk sector, the dairy sector, the cereal sector, etc? In this way, the various offices will benefit from a healthy rivalry. Everyone wants to outstrip the others and agriculture would be able to take the wind out of the sails of the other budget components.For many years, we have also talked about an integrated management and inspection system for agriculture and lamented the fact that many countries are still unable to meet this requirement. I think it is about time this stopped. We have stipulated in the resolution that the Commission will have two years to solve this and I have been given assurances that this should be possible.Although the agricultural budget components are scrutinised, they cannot be scrutinised in the same way as guaranteed expenditure, which is down to the Guidance Section for agriculture. We think the Commission should come up with proposals to actually apply the financial corrections system to structural expenditure for agriculture. In common with the Court of Auditors, the Commission is also concerned that huge mistakes are still being made in the export refunds system.The Committee on Budgets, therefore, recommends discharge. There are, however, a few problems remaining, one of which I have already mentioned, namely export refunds. We are expecting a report on this. We are also waiting for a report from OLAF on fraud involving the aid provided to flax in certain countries, notably Spain. Finally, and I may come back to this at a later stage, we are waiting for a report from the Court of Auditors on the Fléchard affair. We can grant discharge to the Commission without these three elements.There is something else. Since 1995, there has been a conciliation committee for agricultural expenditure. If there is a difference of opinion between the Member States and the Commission on the financial correction to be imposed, we can call upon a conciliation body to mediate. We have as yet to be convinced of the usefulness of this conciliation body. The Commission has promised to assess this. We look forward to the findings because we would like to considerably reduce the number of court cases at the Court of Justice in Luxembourg.
Mr President, I would like to correct an apparent slip of the pen by means of an oral amendment. I would point out that only ‘the country of employment principle’ is referred to in the paragraph, when it should read ‘the country of residence or employment principle’ because of course I cannot determine what choice the Commission has to make, it must do that for itself. But I would like to add ‘the country of residence or employment principle’, twice.- Before Amendment No 6
Mr President, we know that one reason for military intervention is the search for weapons of mass destruction, but there are, of course, other reasons. Parliament's resolution of May 2002 made a proposal which still has not been taken up. It suggested that an international ad-hoc tribunal be set up to try Saddam Hussein and his officials, and that the Commission should set up an office of human rights to collect the evidence.There are, of course, different reasons for intervening: humanitarian interventions, self-defence, Article 51, as was used in Afghanistan, and now a new proposal of anticipatory self-defence – the so-called pre-emptive strike – discussed by President Bush for regime change. Even the 'bullet in the head' option has been discussed. But this Parliament, surely, should have one thing in mind: the people of Iraq. Here I call for a prosecution of Saddam Hussein and his officials under the 1948 Genocide Convention.This is a crime against humanity of such a scale that it can never be forgiven and we must invoke justice and the rule of law. The Genocide Convention to which we and all our allies are parties imposes a duty upon us to punish all acts of genocide ordered by constitutionally-responsible rulers. It expressly envisages that an international court may be established for that purpose, preferably in the territory in which the crimes were committed and if not, elsewhere. In this way all perpetrators may be tried by such international panel tribunals which may have jurisdiction with respect to those contracting parties which have accepted its jurisdiction.The Nuremberg precedent reminds us that a torturer is a torturer even if you are in a uniform and you have accepted an order to torture one of your fellow men or women. In other words, being an official does not exempt you from prosecution. This means that we have an absolute duty to look not just at Saddam Hussein but at all of those officials.What are Saddam Hussein's genocidal acts? In the past, we have seen the use of chemical weapons in the north, the decimation of the gypsies, the persecution of Jews, the Assyrian Christians, over three-quarters of a million displaced people, assaults on Shia Muslims and those of Iranian descent. Thirty years of murderous assault and still he goes after the remnants of those unfortunate people. Genocide now concerns the marsh Arabs: over half a million people destroyed in the last few years. They have lost their place, the people, the fish, the animals, the water, the land, their homes, their farms, villages, towns, boats and agriculture through killing, burning and draining. We have seen the total destruction of a unique, distinctively different and ancient tribal people. That is genocide. A UN resolution is required but we need the evidence to be brought up front, in front of the peoples of the world, to alter the perception of why this course of action is required.The establishment of the Office of Human Rights was accepted in principle by Commissioner Patten at our debate in May 2002. I urge him to set up this office without delay – we have already lost too much time.
Mr President, I would first like to join in congratulating the rapporteur, Mr Di Lello Finuoli, on his work. I am pleased with this initiative from the Danish Government, which is based on the new procedure established in the Treaty of Amsterdam, in order to deal with the matter of ensuring better and greater protection for the environment in the European Union, something which should obviously not be limited by borders within the Union. My colleague, Mrs Thors, has already expressed our favourable position with regard both to the report and to the amendments tabled by the respective committees, and I will therefore focus on three points.For some time, I have been trying to ensure that the Commission deals appropriately with European forests, and I have seen the problems that have arisen as a result of the need to deal in a variety of ways with this issue which has a clear environmental dimension. The first difficulty that I see in truly applying this proposal is in categorising environmental crimes, given the diversity within the Union.The second matter is the need to consider the international dimension of the crime. We have seen how difficult it is to find out who is ultimately responsible for many large-scale environmental crimes, but, furthermore, the set of legal responsibilities of the entities who, ultimately, appear to be responsible, really makes it very difficult to actually deal with these crimes from a criminal point of view. I think that this will be an important task for the Commission. We have to prevent criminal responsibilities from being blurred.Thirdly, Mr President, I just want to say that it is essential that the field of justice and home affairs be communitised in the European Union, and this proposal demonstrates that.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I think that the motion for a resolution that we are presenting today is positive from a political point of view, because it fosters the process of integrating more than 10 million Mexican citizens that belong to the indigenous community and who represent 10 % of the population, into the social sphere of present-day Mexico. We therefore trust that living together peacefully will now become the norm for social behaviour, and also that there will be standardisation in Mexican political life.We must agree that the recent meeting between the indigenous communities and the Mexican politicians is a good example to follow in this political phase which began in July 2000, in which progress is being made, overcoming old contradictions.On these shores, on the old continent of Europe, many of us are pleased to see this political change that is taking place in Mexico in terms of recognising this minority, which has been historically marginalised. This attitude means that we should thank President Fox and his Government, as well as the Zapatistas and obviously the indigenous communities.
Bad governments should disappear via the ballot box, not via the barrel of a gun. This also applies to the Côte d’Ivoire. The widespread dissatisfaction – with good reason – about the corrupt Bédié regime does not justify a coup d’état. It is now a case of the new leaders keeping their word and restoring democracy in the short term, laying down a constitution and ultimately holding free elections in June under international supervision. It is also essential that corruption is tackled. If the new regime does not keep its promises, the cooperation agreement with Europe will need to be suspended. The government of national unity has very little time to restore international confidence. The sooner it disappears from the scene via the ballot box, the better.
Mr President, Commissioner, the development of the information society has been the greatest step forward the world has seen in the last 10 years. It has completely revolutionised the management, transfer and use of information. While thousands of pages of printed paper and huge libraries and archives used to be needed for the storage of information, now the same quantity of information is stored on Internet websites and computer discs. Transfer of information used to mean a journey to the archives, copying documents and posting them off. Now the same data can be browsed on a computer from your own office or study. Sending information used to mean putting it in the post and waiting around for it to arrive; now email gets to where it is going in different parts of the world in seconds.There are no limits to knowledge-based development. The EU has taken this into account in many different ways, including the Information Society for All Programme. That is why the EU’s development strategy to make our continent the world’s most competitive knowledge-based economy is absolutely the right one. There are nevertheless a few conditions attached to this development.A properly balanced information society cannot develop if it is merely market-driven. Society has to be involved in developing and building the infrastructure. We have to ensure that the less well-off, the young and those at risk of exclusion are able to use these services. Regionally we have to make sure that the networks also extend to the sparsely populated and peripheral regions. Proper use must be made of the EU’s Structural Funds.At the same time the monopolies have to be broken. Internet connections must be made reasonably priced by also opening up the last kilometre of connectivity to real competition. We should also be able to prevent the cartelisation and monopolisation of software and applications.Abuse is a separate problem. Sending spam and deliberately creating disorder and malfunctions must be made punishable.The development of the information society provides great opportunities to enhance spiritual, intellectual and material well-being. Accordingly, greater attention must be paid to this work.
Mr President, may I first congratulate the Greek minister for taking up the Presidency. We look forward with confidence to a very successful and very effective six months.The President today commented that our aim must be to bring Afghanistan into a modern statehood. Women's rights give increasing cause for concern, they are not improving, they are becoming worse. Facial covering has become mandatory in many parts of the country; the movement of women is heavily restricted. Virginity is examined on the whim of the police, women are dragged into hospitals and physically examined. In other words, women are reverting to their traditional subordinate role of being the property of the male. The Commissioner has already commented that women's rights in certain areas of the country are under assault, but I say this is also happening at central government level. Women are now forbidden to be presenters on radio or television, which some of them were doing successfully. I have no doubt that women journalists are also under pressure in the written media.Under-representation of women has been commented on already, but I would ask you to recall the famous Loya Jirga, which was almost 100% male. When the deputy Health minister visited the European Commission recently, it was the – male – deputy Health minister, Dr Feroz, who attended, not the Health minister herself, the only senior minister who is a woman. 40% of all health facilities do not have one single woman at any level of their staff, yet it is women worldwide who are fundamentally responsible for all aspects of family health.The word Afghanistan translates correctly into the words 'the land of sorrow and suffering'. For women Afghanistan is becoming, yet again, the land of their deepest sorrow and suffering. Humanitarian aid undoubtedly helps, but just as obviously it is simply not enough. I warmly congratulate both ECHO and the entire Commission involved in Afghanistan, for their fantastic work. But if we want to bring Afghanistan into the modern world, the most basic of human rights, equal respect between the sexes, must become, both a hallmark of our aid and a continuing measurement of our success. It is not so today. If we look at what Mr Solana identified as the aims of European Union involvement in Afghanistan, women are not mentioned: women's rights are just not there. Yet if we mean business, this attitude must be tackled, and it is an attitude, a tribal culture in Baluchistan, which has spread around the region.Why be so squeamish about  tackling women's rights? Is it because Afghanistan is an Islamic society? I do not need to quote the Koran to you to remind you that men and women were equal in the Koran from the very start of Islam; it cannot be because of that. I urge you, alter the priorities of the Council of Ministers, place women's rights high on the agenda. If we fail on that, then we will have no success at all.(Applause)
Madam President, no sooner had agreement been reached with the Council, than Greenpeace, the WWF and the RSPB were denouncing it as inadequate and calling on Members to throw it out. Some Members may vote against it when the time comes, but they will probably come from amongst those who tend to put the interests of industry before those of the environment. I am not really sure whether WWF counts them amongst its friends.I took a certain malevolent delight, especially with the election approaching, in our Green rapporteur having been denounced by Greenpeace for his work, but personally I congratulate him. He has done a great job in keeping all sides of this House together. Of course the agreement is weak, but we have to start somewhere. The reality is that we know there was resistance, even amongst some Member States, towards the implementation of these measures.I am glad that the EU is still trying to lead the world on the whole issue of climate change. However, the real issue is, firstly, that we have to get some sort of agreement up and running and, secondly, that we have to move forward. I am concerned about what will happen if the Kyoto Protocol does not come into force. That is the key question that the Commissioner is seeking to address this week with colleagues. Can we persuade Russia – the crucial element in the equation – to sign up to the Kyoto Protocol and bring it into force? I do not like having to give in to ransom demands. However, for once, it might be a price worth paying.
I would have preferred a different wording for paragraph 9.Paragraph 9 – which deals with Turkey and the Kurdish question – is, in my view, far too weakly formulated. For decades, the Turkish State has persecuted the Kurdish people and denied them their self-evident entitlement, as a minority, to political, social and cultural rights, as well as the right to their own language, their own schools and their own culture.The death sentence upon Öçalan is one more proof that Turkey still does not comply with the EU’s requirements of a candidate country.It is also important to emphasise that the KLA must cease engaging in violence and terrorism in order to support a peaceful and political solution to the Kurdish question.Turkey may not be regarded as a sound candidate for accession to the EU for as long as basic human and humanitarian rights are not respected.I therefore refrained from voting in the final vote.– Middle East Peace Process
Mr President, Mr Antonione, Commissioner, the democratic deficit in the EU is, in fact, often talked about. Decisions are taken behind closed doors by a circle of ministers, without ourselves, as citizens, being guaranteed political influence via an open debate and without ministers being held directly responsible to the voters for the decisions they make. That is the deficit that we in Parliament must make up, and Parliament’s influence on the budget and budget control are crucial in this area. It is, of course, not the governments that we see taking the lead in demanding reforms and better management of EU finances. It is Parliament that does this.The proposal by the finance ministers, whatever status it may have, involving a desire to uncouple Parliament from the budget process, is therefore a very embarrassing attack on democracy, and I hope that the EU Heads of State and Government will acknowledge this and reject the proposals. I hope that they accept the Convention’s proposal concerning the budget procedure, for it is balanced in a way with which they can be satisfied. At present, Parliament has, of course, real influence, both upon the annual budget and the financial estimates. Under the Convention’s proposal, we should be surrendering a little of the latter form of influence, for we can, at present, say at any time that we do not accept the multiannual budget framework but are returning to annual budgeting, for that is what is specified in the Treaty.Parliament has voluntarily entered into multiannual agreements, and we can accept these agreements in future becoming law, but on condition that we are given influence over the financial estimates and, of course, on condition too that we are given influence over the agricultural budget. That is the balance in the Convention’s proposal. Parliament gives something and receives something in return.I also look forward to the Danish Government’s denying press reports that it would support one of the finance ministers’ proposals, namely the proposal to introduce unanimity in the European Council when the financial estimates are adopted, for that cannot be right. We are in danger of deadlock in which the work of reform, including the reform of agricultural policy, is blocked. Denmark’s point of departure is that the European Parliament must have greater, not less, influence over the budget. This is something on which we must stand firm.
chairman of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs. – Madam President, on behalf of the committee I have the honour to chair, I would ask that this topic be reinserted on this week's agenda, since, contrary to the advice given to the Conference of Presidents last week, the Justice and Home Affairs Council will be discussing it at its meeting this Friday. This evening the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs will adopt a text, drafted in cooperation with the Committee on Budgetary Control and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, which we believe is a strong basis for a Parliament resolution on this matter. If it is not possible to have a debate in plenary with the Council, we request authorisation to submit this text to the plenary in the form of a draft recommendation for a vote on Thursday, pursuant to Article 39 of the Treaty and Rule 94 of our Rules of Procedure.
Mr President, I have to say, the liberal group did wrestle with this topic to some degree, and has problems with the Commission proposal. The question is, how motherly should the European Union be in the quest to protect itself from its subjects? Indeed, we can see major differences compared to the control of tobacco. Tobacco is always harmful, whereas alcohol is not, most of the time. The addictive aspects are completely different. Tobacco is immediately addictive, alcohol is not. Also, the seriousness of the tobacco issue is of a completely different order from that of alcohol. Alcohol does create problems, and sometimes they can be harrowing. Just think of the road victims caused by alcohol abuse, which Mrs Malliori mentioned a moment ago, or the role of alcohol in domestic violence. However, the issues are first and foremost of a criminal nature and, as such, they belong with the national, not the European, legislator. This is also preferable for reasons of content. The cultural differences in this area are enormous, and a legislator who is closer to the citizen can therefore act more effectively, and, in the final analysis, effectiveness is what it is all about. In addition, in the proposals, the differences between justified alcohol consumption and alcohol abuse have been watered down, if you will excuse the pun. In that respect, we believe that the present proposals are to some extent missing the mark. We also vehemently object to the patronising overtones of many of the amendments, in particular. We identified much more with the rapporteur’s original report, on which we should like to congratulate her. To the Member States, I would like to say the following: be as strict as you like in terms of controlling alcohol abuse, and especially alcohol abuse among young people, but do not hide behind the European Union and behind what you are about to arrange amongst yourselves behind closed doors in the Health Council. We do recognise the fact that the issue of alcohol has a European, cross-border dimension, although it is not evident from these proposals. These predominantly focus on the ingredients of alcohol products. We believe that European legislation in the field of labelling should at least be considered or examined. This could then include the possibility of using warning labels, as is done in the United States, for example, at least as long as it can be proven that these warning labels serve a purpose. It could also incorporate the issue of advertising. Secondly, the proposals deal with taxes, excise, tariffs and such like. The differences in this field within the Union are enormous. We wonder about the internal market implications this has, as well as the health implications. That is why my group has tabled an amendment on both scores.
Mr President, this is an important milestone in the creation of the single market. Today we will be debating two draft directives, including the prospectus directive, on which I have the honour to be Parliament's rapporteur that incorporate the delegated powers proposed by Baron Lamfalussy's wise men. We all very much hope that this new way of dealing with financial regulations will prove to be a step change in creating a single market, the foundations of which have been put in place by the creation of the euro and its successful introduction.The prospectus directive is designed to establish the ground rules under which an issuer of shares, bonds or other securities may access investors throughout the 15 Member States. At present, a company has to seek 15 regulatory approvals for 15 different sets of disclosure documents. This is a nonsense. It means separate markets in new issues, higher regulatory costs, higher costs of capital for business and less choice for investors. I have no doubt, therefore, that a single regime for prospectuses can create benefits for all, greater choice and higher returns for investors, lower costs of capital and funding opportunities for companies. The Single Market is a win-win game, not a zero-sum game.In drawing up requirements for an EU prospectus, it is important to strike a balance between the objective of lowering the cost of capital for businesses and that of protecting investors. There ought to be enough potential gains to secure both, and that is the balance we have tried to strike on the committee, I am particularly grateful to my colleagues, Mrs Piia-Noora Kauppi and Mr Harald Ettl as the shadow rapporteurs, and to their respective groups, for their help and cooperation. We tried to make a break in this proposal with in-depth hearings to understand the issues and I hope that we have a substantial measures of consensus within Parliament on many of the key problems and how to solve them.We all agreed we wanted, for example, to exempt the professional market for Eurobonds from the requirement for a prospectus, but of course, to insist on one if the issuer wanted to attract retail investors. The broad framework for that is agreed across this House. We have one issue to settle: should we have a minimum unit for each exempted Eurobond of EUR 50 000 or of EUR 100 000? I hope you will agree that EUR 50 000 is enough to exclude retail investors, as the larger amount will prove cumbersome even for professional investors who are used to dealing in units of EUR 10 000.The second key set of amendments deals with whether companies must annually update their prospectuses or whether, if they do not issue more bonds or shares, they do not have to do so. Overall, the committee supported the view taken by the EU's regulators – FESCO and now CESR – and that it makes sense for such annual updating to be optional if the issuer of bonds or shares wants to issue again. In addition, this is not a directive concerned with general disclosure requirements by companies trading on the market. We shall deal with the consultation in that area in due course.I have also been pleased to support an amendment from the Socialist Group to allow smaller companies to update their prospectus, if they so wish, with the filing of their annual report.We have also generally sought to have the Commission, advised by the Securities Committee, take account of different securities and issuers including small business. Therefore, the disclosure requirements will be tailored to particular circumstances. This leads me to a further compromise amendment, which would allow a national authority, if it wanted, to exempt companies with a market capitalisation of less than EUR 350 million from the EU requirement, so long as they are not marketing outside that Member State. This seems likes a large amount, but I would merely point out that there are a number of quoted companies currently meeting the small and medium-sized enterprise definition that would actually be covered by this. For example, the British Technology Group employs just 182 people and has a turnover of EUR 22 million and a balance sheet of EUR 32 million. It is an SME, but has a market capitalisation currently of EUR 1.6 billion. Small companies can have vast values, and it only takes one or two Nobel scientists on board to ensure that that happens. It seems to me that, as an investor-protection measure, it is better to have these enterprises included within the scope.Let me finally explain why I think issuer choice of regulatory authority is important. We want regulators to cooperate and they are increasingly doing so. We also want to give them an incentive to do so. By allowing issuers to choose between their regulatory authorities, largely as they do now, for example, on all securities except equities in a domestic market, we can ensure that that cooperation proceeds and that we gradually put in place the foundation for a single regulatory authority across the Union.
Mr President, I have three points. Firstly, this paper is slightly more modest than its title suggests. When you first titillated us with the prospect of presenting this White Paper over a year ago, we were all very excited at the idea of having some great constitutional blueprint. In fact, you have very wisely produced a paper on good administration rather than a blueprint on governance or constitutional government as a whole, and that pragmatic and focused approach has much to commend it.Secondly, I very much welcome your announcement today that you wish to establish an interinstitutional working party. I have always felt it was a mistake to try to treat governance as if it were a piece of legislation which was first presented by the Commission and then batted between the institutions. This is not normal legislation, but an intensely political debate that requires an intensely political and cooperative approach between the institutions.My final point is one that you touch upon quite politely in the White Paper. I will be less polite: we can do as much as we like at European level – in Strasbourg and Brussels – to improve administration and governance and make our decisions more comprehensible, legitimate and understandable. However, as long as national political institutions and national political cultures remain frozen in the 19th-century mould and pretend that either the EU does not exist or is some far-off spaceship, we will never make great advances in this honourable enterprise of improving governance. Governance can only be built brick by brick from the bottom, from the ground floor, from our nations and regions. That is where we should all start.
Mr President, the Supplementary and Amending Budget makes pitiful reading. It literally means that EUR 700 million in EU funds is to go up in smoke, as this is the amount to be spent on beef that is at risk and that will have to be destroyed. The worst thing about all this is, however, that the BSE crisis is seriously threatening the equilibrium of the EU budget. Some of the expenditure in this supplementary budget is being financed on the rather optimistic supposition that considerable savings are to be had from the euro-dollar exchange rate. This is probably mostly wishful thinking. But the most serious aspect of the issue is that the margin for the Financial Perspective is in danger of being used up entirely. After the proposal has gone through, the margin will only be EUR 506 million, or just over 1% of the total amount in that category. Nevertheless, we may assume with a degree of certainty that the demand for beef exported outside the EU will rocket.Consumption has dropped in many of the large countries, which is reflected in increased stocks. As, at least for a few years, we can expect consumption to fall permanently, we should aim to release these stocks for export. Within the framework of the current Financial Perspective, there is no longer any scope for doing this. As a result, there is fear that other agricultural expenditure will be cut. That might well mean a cut in income for individual farmers, in other words, individual farmers will have to pay for the crisis.We have to remember that the BSE crisis was not caused by farmers. They used the legally approved feed in good faith, although it turned out to be toxic. For that reason, we all have to share the responsibility and not put the burden of that responsibility on one part of the population. I am in favour of dividing the costs in half.
Mr President, according to the Russian Constitution, the journalist Grigory Pasko would have rendered himself liable to punishment if he had withheld information on environmental issues or environmental disasters which might have endangered human life. That is what is stated in Articles 41 and 42, brilliant as they are, of the Russian Constitution. That, however, is something he did not do. On the contrary, he has continuously reported on the way in which the Russian Pacific fleet dumps nuclear waste and redundant weapons in the Pacific and so gives rise to an environmental disaster in the making. For having done so, he has been found guilty of high treason by a Russian military court and sentenced to four years’ imprisonment. Everything took place behind closed doors, and seventy journalists were expelled from the courtroom. Last month, his sentence was confirmed by the Military Collegium of the Russian Supreme Court in Moscow.It is deeply tragic for Grigory Pasko, and it is deeply tragic in terms of the situation in Russia where democracy and human rights are concerned. It shows that, in Russia, these are very hard times when it comes to freedom of expression and the principles upon which our European Union is based. This Parliament must clearly express our repudiation of laws and sentences which restrict the freedom of the press, and we must, here in Parliament, call upon the Council to give expression to our serious concern in the forthcoming meetings between the EU and Russia. The EU supports Russia economically and, in that connection, the Commission must be very careful that the projects we support comply with our demands for press freedom and the independence of the media and the courts.
Mr President, the European Liberal Democrats also reject the European Central Bank's proposal for a change in the way it takes decisions once the 10 candidate countries join the eurozone. The ECB proposal would create a third class of Member State with fewer chances of voting and, outrageously, only candidate countries would be in this inferior grouping.Tiny Luxembourg gets a special lift into the second group thanks to its financial markets, even though it has had a central bank for substantially fewer years than many of the candidate countries, including Poland and Hungary. This is a proposal designed to protect the vested interests of the eurozone's existing central bankers. They are just trying to pull the ladder up behind them.We support instead an Executive Board of nine members, as Mr Friedrich has mentioned, taking operational decisions, plus a wider Governing Council that would involve all Member States' central bank governors in strategic decisions, such as the definition of price stability, and the emphasis on other objectives, such as monetary reference values.As regards the proposal of theGroups that the Governing Council should decide by a double majority system, giving more weight to the members from the big Member States, we beg to differ. We support the principle of one member one vote when it comes to decision-taking, and a double majority system implies that a Governing Council member from a big Member State is representing that Member State, rather than voting for the eurozone as a whole. This would be retrogressive and would undermine the collegiate outlook of the Governing Council. However, there should be some checks and balances on the Executive Board, which is why we propose that the Governing Council should be able to overturn decisions of the Executive Board by a two-thirds majority. The Convention should look at this issue so that it can be discussed as openly as possible and with full consultation of all the interested parties.
Mr President, first I would like to congratulate the Ombudsman on the extremely competent work he has done, and especially his work in defence of the rights of all the citizens of the Union. A special thank you goes to Mrs Almeida Garrett, who has succeeded in putting her case with great ability, and has also been successful in conducting intelligent mediation.Society advances and the law always follows its progress. Sometimes that progress is rapid and the law seems slow compared with practice. That is why I think the Ombudsman is right to propose amending Article 3 of the statute, which dates from the 1990s.However, together with other members of the Committee on Petitions, I felt that the request to amend Article 3 went too far, in particular as regards the obligation to testify, even for members of the Community institutions. This is because there is a difficulty and confusion, including legal confusion, between control of the institutions’ administrative practices and control of political acts of members of those institutions. There was therefore a need to maintain greater balance, although there is no intention to slow down any investigation, for clarity and above all in defence of proximity and transparency, fundamental pillars contained in the Union’s Treaties.I think the solution adopted of partial revision, to which the Ombudsman has also contributed with his final letter accepting the positions of the rapporteur, Mrs Almeida Garrett, and the Commissioner, is the best way forward, and in the future appropriate steps can be taken to carry out a more systematic and juridical revision of this statute, respecting Community legislation and continuing to act in accordance with that principle of proximity and transparency which governs – and should continue to govern – the relationship between European citizens and Community institutions.
Madam President, I want to clarify my remarks of yesterday on my report to avoid any misunderstanding on inter-country adoption by Spanish families of Romanian children in the last ten years.I can say categorically that the vast majority of these cases have been processed fully and properly by the Spanish authorities and by the families in question. Indeed I know that they have resulted in many happy outcomes, some of which are known to my Spanish colleagues here in Parliament.I can add that the authorities in the European Union Member States have, of course, been acting with full propriety on this sensitive matter and that none have acted more rigorously than the Spanish authorities.I am grateful to Spanish colleagues here for drawing this need for clarification to my attention and in particular to Mr Gil-Robles Gil-Delgado and Mr Salafranca Sánchez-Neyra. I look forward to continued fruitful cooperation with all of my Spanish colleagues in this Parliament in the future.(Parliament adopted the resolution)***Report (A5-0260/2001) by Mr Volcic, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, on Slovenia’s application for membership of the European Union and the state of negotiations [COM(2000)712 – C5-0612/2000 – 1997/2181(COS)](Parliament adopted the resolution)***Report (A5-0261/2000) by Mr Poos, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, on Cyprus’s membership application to the European Union and the state of negotiations [COM(2000)702 – C5-0602/2000 – 1997/2171(COS)]- Before the vote on Amendment No 16 by the  Group
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we can see that human rights are still a current issue; today, we are talking about human rights in a Central American country close to our hearts, at a time, furthermore, when the International Criminal Court is finally being established.A few days ago I read an article, written by a Central American liberal, that I believe is relevant today. He said that Central America is an area of natural disasters, situated on a fault line, that every now and then knocks down cities and buries entire populations. It seems, however, that the region is also under threat from another kind of fault, one of moral order, where impunity appears to protect certain heartless individuals.A 2001 report by Transparency International, a German NGO that monitors and condemns government corruption worldwide, states that Guatemala is in a situation in which the democratic system is discredited to the point where its institutions are in danger.We in this House today condemn human rights violations in Guatemala, which are on the increase and, as Mr Pomés has just pointed out, affect workers, journalists and politicians, amongst others. We regret the abuses committed by certain economic agents, who see nothing wrong in using arms trafficking, drugs trafficking, money laundering and even kidnapping to increase their wealth.We in this House would ask the Guatemalan government to monitor and sanction clandestine groups, to guarantee citizens’ safety and to allow justice to be done, by investigating crimes that have been committed for some time now. Impunity will only be brought to an end when the judiciary is independent and free, when international pressure is increased and when punishment is universal so that crimes do not go unpunished. In this way, democracy will also be strengthened.
Mr President, the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party is in favour of the reports we have for discussion, and we support the Commission’s attempt to make the very difficult work the European Union is doing for the Balkans more effective. The aid has been too bureaucratic and too slow in coming, because the Commission has been too centralised and management-driven in its work. There has been too much management in detail, and Parliament has been complicit in this on a number of points. It is very unfortunate that the agency has been split up into a headquarters in Thessaloniki and an operations centre in Pristina. We have been opposed to this throughout. Moreover, the arrangement has now also been criticised by the Court of Auditors. It is good that, in this year’s Budget, EUR 175 million is being set aside for Kosovo and EUR 200 million for emergency aid for Serbia. It is very unfortunate, however, that the appropriations to the UN’s administration in Kosovo, to the Baltic region and to the rapid reaction facility have been put in the reserves.It is very unfortunate that there is no certainty regarding what we have by way of money for Serbia next year. It is particularly unfortunate in view of the fact that the elected Serbian President is coming here tomorrow. It is also unfortunate that a large number of programmes have been put in the so-called performance reserve. I am well aware that Parliament wants in this way to force the Commission to behave better, but one ought not to take one’s own children hostage. We should do much better to give the Commission a free hand in making the work effective, and we must reserve the right to criticise the Commission if the work is not a success. We must not make ourselves partly liable for possible damage to programmes of which we are in favour. Let us give the Commission larger appropriations and permission to delegate responsibility so that it becomes easier to make rapid decisions and to implement initiatives. Let us celebrate the visit by the elected Serbian president tomorrow by now seriously giving the Commission a chance to put the aid we offer onto a new and better footing.
President Mugabe is allowing his people to starve and is blaming the West. It is not he who has driven his own people to starvation, but the neo-liberal development model. It is not he who has crushed democracy, violently intimidated his political opponents and manipulated elections, but the neo-colonial powers in Europe. It is not he who attacks the independent media, but reprobates who are beyond his control. It is not he who allows his militia to rape women who oppose him, but total strangers. And it is not he who withholds food from his political opponents, but the enemies of Zimbabwe.All this former freedom fighter's political actions now have just one goal: how to stay in power at any cost. No decent person objects to land reform, but every decent person objects to land reform as practised by President Mugabe. Farmers are deprived of everything without any compensation and are forced to flee. It is not the people of Zimbabwe who get the land they are entitled to, but Mr Mugabe’s political buddies. The President was allowed to unashamedly propound misleading political propaganda at the Johannesburg Summit. The so-called smart sanctions against the regime are not being particularly smartly enforced. The penalties must be applied more strictly and the target group must be expanded.I therefore ask Commissioner Patten what the position is regarding the promised investigation into the freezing of these men's assets in Europe. It is high time that new, honest elections were held in this country. President Mbeki of South Africa and other leaders in the region must ultimately accept their responsibility and must support the people of Zimbabwe and not a president who neglects his citizens because of his own hunger for power.
I rise to speak about the women of Afghanistan. At a time when Christmas is approaching, this offers one opportunity, among the multiplicity of human rights abuses globally, for Muslims and Christians to come together against the forces of evil. For Islam and Christianity both uphold the rights of women, and the abuses of human rights against women that are taking place in Afghanistan, and have been taking place for so long now, are against the ethics of Islam. No proper Muslim in the world will support the treatment of women that has been meted out by the bestial Afghan sadists and torturers. It is an unbelievable situation but it is one in which we can join hands, bring forces to bear upon the Taliban society and free those poor women.Why have we held back? I am ashamed of this. I call upon us all to intervene in Afghanistan with Islam, with Christians, with Jews, with the entirety of the world. There can be no hanging back in the millennium: free these poor women now!
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, we in the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party have a mainly positive attitude to the present report on human rights. Parliament has been wanting to see a report like this for a long time. We are therefore looking forward with pleasure to the tradition which the Finnish Presidency has now initiated. There is a need for specific detail, further development and more thorough analysis We shall be returning to these questions, from Parliament’s point of view, in the report for which I have the honour of being rapporteur and on which there will be a vote in March of next year.I want to take up a number of questions, however. One of these relates to the policy on minorities, of which there is little mention in the report. The EU quite rightly makes tough demands on the applicant countries where policy on minorities is concerned. We have also reacted very strongly when the rights of minorities in the world around us have been infringed. However, we ourselves are not always as good at putting our own house in order. The EU needs to strengthen its own policy on minorities. Quite a few of the Member States (including my home country, Sweden) have not signed the international declaration on the rights of minorities. This is an example of why the European Union must have a credible internal policy if it is to be credible externally.The European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party also welcomes the strategic perspective offered by the report, together with the ambition it expresses to work for a more integrated policy within the field of human rights. The EU, and especially the European Parliament, in fact has a very high profile and very high ambitions in the struggle for human rights. This Chamber has emphatically condemned the death penalty, discrimination, torture and other acts of cruelty. We know that our citizens care deeply about these issues.The problem is that our policy is not always consistent and integrated, and this sends out some odd signals. Measures must be taken to combat this problem and ambitions need to be raised significantly. If it is to be credible, our perspective on human rights must permeate the European Union’s entire policy, that is to say foreign policy, trade policy, policy on aid etc. What is required, therefore, is to raise the profile of human rights. These ought not to be seen in terms of some incidental ad hoc initiative but must be founded upon a well thought-out, consistent, clear and open policy. We must therefore be better at coordinating internal and external policies. This will mean collecting facts and acquiring better data and engaging in analysis and regular follow-up. It will require cooperation between the EU’s various institutions, between the EU and the Member States, between the EU and the voluntary organisations and between the EU and other countries. The failure to bring about a worldwide moratorium on the use of the death penalty is both tragic and deeply embarrassing.If this can become a common policy and a common strategy for the years to come, then I look forward to further constructive and fruitful work within this important sphere.(Applause)
We have abstained from voting on Mr Andersson’s report on harassment at the workplace.We are basically well disposed towards the European Union. European integration provides an opportunity to find solutions to cross-border problems, such as those concerning the environment, trade, movement across borders, human rights and conflict management. We also believe in the principle of subsidiarity whereby decisions are to be taken as close as possible to those whom they affect. That is why we are actively pursuing the issue of a constitution for the European Union in which the distribution of responsibilities is clear to everyone. It must be perfectly clear to all citizens that the EU must only attend to those issues which it is best qualified to deal with, namely the cross-border issues.Harassment at the workplace is, of course, a problem, and as much as possible must be done in various ways to do away with such harassment. We do not, however, believe that measures to combat this problem are best taken at EU level. For us, it is important for the EU to concentrate instead on areas in which it can really do some good. This is not such an area.Report Coelho (A5-0233/2001)
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have as yet been unable to find a simple solution to the problem of liberalising public transport. That does not mean to say that we should not continue with the liberalisation process. Quite the reverse, in fact.Nevertheless, this liberalisation process should not be forced. It must be carried out in stages. In principle, I am against exceptions to freedom of services, but it is clear, of course, that a very limited list of exceptions should be possible, particularly for less sizeable contracts.Finally, I should like to say that it should also be made clear that it certainly cannot be the intention to replace the government monopoly by a private monopoly. I therefore think that a compromise solution must be found, particularly in the interest of the user. Many thanks, Mr President.
Mr President, the proposal for a directive that is currently before us is a much–watered-down version of what Parliament undermined eighteen months ago, unfortunately only by one vote.The current proposal leaves a great deal of scope for Member States and companies themselves, such as a company's optional, or even temporary, permission to take defensive mechanisms when it is faced with what it views as a hostile takeover bid. The question can therefore be posed whether takeovers are still to be possible at European level and whether this directive will, in practice, make any actual change to the current situation.Nevertheless, I think that we should approve this proposal, even if it were to finally end the discussion in the European Union about takeover bids – which has been going on for thirteen years now – and set up a first, albeit hesitant, regulation.According to a Flemish saying, a bird in the hand is worth two in the bush. The takeover directive is indeed an important component of the Lisbon agenda on a strong, competitive European Union and is essential to the further completion of the European internal market. We should therefore ensure that this directive enters into force as soon as possible, so that we, along with the market operators, can immediately learn whether, and how, we can give this regulation more depth.
Madam President, I should like, in my turn, and this time on behalf of the, to thank Professor Trakatellis for his excellent report and for his particularly productive and effective collaboration with the notional rapporteurs, and in this case, believe me, that is not just a formality.He has succeeded in extracting from the 57 amendments our essential concerns, as expressed by our vote on the occasion of the first reading.Above all, I should just like to say that I am glad that he has abandoned the idea of creating a European centre for the coordination and monitoring of public health. On this point, I would just like to remind the House that thesupports Amendment Nos 34 and 57 which, more prudently, are evidently intended to strengthen that coordination and also Community integration at the level of the various existing public health networks, under the auspices of the Commission.At a more fundamental level, of course, there are still points on which we disagree with the Council: first of all its refusal to include in the enacting terms any mention of a specific disease, any explicit reference to patients’ rights, or the methods of action for preventing diseases. Amendment Nos 16, 22 and 47 are essential. They emphasise the importance of a policy of prevention and epidemiological monitoring.Finally, thanks to Amendment Nos 3, 26 and 42, the rights of young and adult patients are finally laid down in a Community programme.The second point on which we disagree is the budget, on which Parliament has already made numerous efforts to reach a compromise with the Council. The EUR 380 million which we had adopted at the time of the first reading in plenary session, on 4 April, is in our view the minimum minimorum. Moreover, as far as the budgetary aspect is concerned the Council’s position is to my mind somewhat paradoxical. It has drastically reduced the budget to EUR 280 million, and at the same time it intends to open up this programme to the candidate and associated countries. There is a problem here.Should it be necessary to remind the House, as our rapporteur has done, that health is one of the most important concerns of the citizens of Europe? Food safety issues, changed attitudes in the face of the AIDS scourge, for example, or the threat of biological terrorism, remind us that the human race is not immune from outbreaks of new viruses or the reappearance of former pandemics. This fully justifies an appropriate budget for the next six years. The citizens – and I am just about to finish, Madam President – the citizens, the Members that represent them, and the Commission, all insist on that budget, in order to ensure that health is not sacrificed on the altar of budgetary dogmatism.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, perhaps I have a certain ability to come across as being particularly motherly but, being very often out and about among people, I am able to confirm that there is genuine anxiety and fear among our electorate, that is to say the people we represent. People are in actual fact afraid. They have, for example, been afraid of what is contained in food, of mad cow disease, of additives and of pesticide residues. Parliament, the Commission and the Council have in actual fact tackled the issue as a whole, and we are now perhaps putting the last pieces of the puzzle in place when it comes to thinking about food safety. We now have sound, comprehensive legislation.There is also a fear of chemicals of all types. I wish to commend the Commissioner for her work on forming a comprehensive view – which may perhaps constitute a model for the rest of the world – of the use of chemicals in Europe.It is these matters that have begun to be tackled. Air pollution and climate change have also been addressed. Right now, the European tabloids and popular press all too often discuss the fear of radiation – most recently from mobile phones and attendant transmitter masts. There is so much that is unknown and to be afraid of.I have inherited this report and did not write it myself. I rather think that it is a little too far-reaching and perhaps not sufficiently structured. It is important to take an overall view, so that everything is not divided up into small pieces. It is crucial that we obtain some sort of overall picture of the anxiety and of the problems, of what we can, and cannot, prove and of what we need to know more about. Subsequently, we can determine how best to draw up a strategic battle plan for coping successfully with the problems that undoubtedly exist.I have tried to include an aspect that is rather controversial, namely the fact that individuals have to have access to enough information to be able, as far as possible, to make choices concerning lifestyle, food, exercise and detergents – in fact, everything to which we are giving thought and attention – and to take responsibility for their own, and their families’, health. The health problems are now such that it is not only political decisions that apply. Instead, people must have the greatest possible knowledge. In order to be able to make active, informed choices, people must have access to information that is clear and comprehensible and that conveys a message that is relatively simple to understand.I have removed any suggestion that allergies are definitely bound up with traffic problems. I believe that this is an inference without proper scientific backing. Someone with respiratory problems or allergies is obviously hit very hard by poor air quality or air pollution. Since there is lung disease in my family, I can point out that, for example, the use of perfume constitutes at least as serious a problem for someone with an allergy. The cause of the spread of childhood allergies in modern times is perhaps also to be sought elsewhere than purely in external environmental factors. There may perhaps be biological factors involved.Mr President, that was my last speech here in the European Parliament.
Mr President, I wish also, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, to express my sympathy with those affected by the events in Galicia. We all feel powerless. I myself looked at the web site where all vessels are supposed to be listed and looked for the vessel Prestige. It is not there, even though it ought to be.I would ask you to convey to the Commission that we too wish to know about the part played by Latvia in what has happened. I also want our Latvian colleagues to comment on the matter so that we obtain a debate, for the vessel was on the way from Latvia to Gibraltar. I also believe that these countries should comply with current standards. At the same time, I would ask the Commission to find out the name of the charterer. I have tried to find it in the newspapers. It is a piece of information we need if we are to be able to monitor developments.In the light of previous interventions, I want to point out that Wednesday is the day when we celebrate the rights of the child. I think that we should celebrate together and that greetings should be sent to Carol Belami.
Mr President, Commissioner, the present initiative is important for the purpose of making decision makers in general more aware of developments, but also because levels of development differ very greatly from one European country to another. We can also see this from the follow-up document prepared by the Commission. The initiative is important if we are to stop having to say that the United States is the overall leader within this developing field. According to the “2000 IDC/World Times Information Society Index”, published in February, Sweden has overtaken the United States as the leading information economy. The United States occupies second place. Finland, Norway and Denmark follow, in that order. People may hold different views as to the value of this type of investigation, but I think it is important to emphasise that the US model is not the only one which leads to success in the IT society, something which far too many people have said in this House. Scandinavia is acquitting itself well with its social infrastructure and also, perhaps, with its pensions systems. We ought to bear this in mind, something I am convinced the Commission has done.We should also remember that the EU countries are very different from one another and that developments are very rapid. This must be reflected in the action plan. It is also important that the countries which are forging ahead most quickly should not be checked in their development. It is important that we should clarify what is being done at EU level and what is being done with EU resources and that we should be prepared to make changes to regional policy and redirect some resources for research in ways that benefit “e-Europe”. In view of countries’ different levels of development in the IT sphere, I am also sceptical about information plans and campaigns at EU level. “e-Europe” means more than just “e-commerce”.The Directive on electronic commerce deals for the most part with things other than trading on the part of consumers. I should like to appeal to the Commission to pay attention to the question which is being discussed in an adjoining room with Federal Trade Commissioner Thompson: that of how we are to increase consumer confidence. The consumer has to be king when it comes to electronic commerce. Otherwise, it will not properly take off. When alternative ways of solving disputes are discussed, we ought to collaborate globally with the United States. Nonetheless, we should also support the OECD in its work.The issues of broadband communications and of good infrastructure are on the agenda in the majority of countries. There is a need for diversity, but now more standards are being sought for Digital Subscriber Lines with the help of which it will be possible to upgrade the network. It is widely maintained that telephone companies are not making use of the available technology because standards are lacking.Smart cards, encryption, mobile phones and “e-Europe” constitute our strength. We shall persist with developments in these areas but, when it comes to standards, we need to pursue further development. It is not we politicians who should decide on these standards. Instead, we should allow industry to reach an agreement concerning standards where there is a demand for these. Our task is to legislate more quickly and to make for new patterns of legislation where possible. I am glad that this point is made in the report.
Mr President, the mine is an economic weapon, which has effects that are both physical and psychological, the latter being increased because of the insidious nature of mines. Easy to put in place and relatively cheap, mines are a recurring threat long after the end of fighting. Although the Ottawa agreement banning anti-personnel mines has now entered into force, only future conflicts are affected. The fight against the approximately 110 million mines across the world sadly remains a reality. There are stocks that pose a threat of proliferation, and several Phare countries, such as the former Yugoslavia, the United States, China and Russia, should be encouraged to ratify this treaty.Nor, unfortunately, has the time come to bring an end to the humanitarian action, carried out either by NGOs or the UN, to combat this scourge. I also welcome the preparations for the Ottawa Conference. Six years after the signing in Ottawa of a convention banning the use, stockpiling and production of anti-personnel mines, let us remember that it is said that, every year, there are still between 15 000 and 20 000 people in the world who are victims of such mines. In particular, children continue to pay a heavy price for the spread of the poor man’s weapon, and children make up a quarter of the victims. This is why it is our duty to continue the battle and, above all, to do everything possible to ensure that, finally, production of these mines comes to an end.
Two years ago I spoke in the debate on the annual legislative programme on behalf of the, and I was very critical of the old process which I described as the swapping of shopping lists between Parliament and Commission. Now we have a proper process, a proper interinstitutional dialogue. We have in front of us now a broad strategy tailored to the overriding political goal of enlargement and few of us would disagree with the broad picture and, indeed, the early attempt to attach budgetary implications.Now the real process will start with detailed consideration in Parliament's committees and this is what is paramount. At last there is meaningful involvement of Parliament and I have no doubt the committees will start to flesh out a final legislative programme. This is a welcome change in our working methods and should allow us to plan and prepare our legislative work much better.Added to these developments, the Legal Affairs Committee had an historic joint meeting with national parliamentarians, this morning, to discuss the EU legislative process and how Community law is implemented. There can be no doubt that colleagues in national parliaments need fair warning of what we will be dealing with and when. This will allow them to input to us or to hold their ministers in the Council to account in a meaningful way. It was clear from our discussion that those Member States who allow their national parliamentarians early involvement in the process have far less difficulty implementing Community legislation. Their citizens are more comfortable with the process and the final result has increased legitimacy. That is the real connection we are all striving to obtain with our citizens so there are thankfully new winds blowing through our legislative process. The convention may unleash a few more but I am glad to see that those wretched shopping lists have gone at the first blast.
Mr President, I am sorry to rise to speak against my successor on an issue like this, but it seems to me that, just as we rightly ask the Committee on Budgetary Control to look at the allegations about the reform process that have been raised in some newspapers over the weekend, we should also ask the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs to look urgently at this matter. What is at stake here is the possibility of the Americans coming back to us with a request for access to databases on European airline passengers which would ride roughshod over our own data protection legislation and indeed could form a major intrusion into the civil liberties of European citizens. It seems to me that, if the House does not take a position this week, then we are impotent. We ought to be stressing very strongly our opposition to what the Americans are requesting and our opposition to any potential agreement by the Commission to such a request.(Applause)(Parliament rejected the request)President. – The vote will thus be taken on Thursday, 13 March.
I too have just returned from the Jenin refugee camp, and it is impossible to capture in words the horror of what we have seen and heard over the past couple of days. A man had been attempting for four days to locate his brother under the rubble with his bare hands, while Israel obstructed the bulldozers that were needed for this. A doctor was not allowed to attend to a bleeding man on the street until this man had bled to death. A Palestinian family had been living in East Jerusalem for fifty years and was evicted from their home on Monday night in order to make room for Israeli settlers. Computers of the Palestinian Ministry of Education were piled up by Israeli soldiers and subsequently blown up with grenades.Can someone tell me what these acts have to do with the fight against terrorism? The Israeli Government is not only fighting terrorism. Sharon is maliciously destroying the Palestinian infrastructure and, with it, Palestine’s hope, and people without any hope are driven to acts of despair. Loathsome suicide attacks are then the end result. And this is how Sharon himself contributes to Israel’s lack of security, which he claims he wants to promote.Israel’s security can only be guaranteed if we remove the causes of this despair: the colonisation and occupation. However, Sharon has indicated he would like to build new settlements. How is this supposed to guarantee Israel’s security?Finally, we are all shocked by the growth in anti-Semitism in Europe. We condemn this emphatically and call on governments to take vigorous action. However, it is unacceptable to do as Mr Perez does and instantly label everyone who levels criticism at Israel as anti-Semitic, and it is a very easy way out of addressing well-founded international criticism.
Mr President, with regard to the Zabell report, I would like to make it clear that I only voted for the amendments which require a legal basis, while I voted against the report as a whole. Indeed, current events show that the policy adopted by the World Anti-Doping Agency is a failure, and Europe should not have associated itself with it since it is a policy made by others and for which we should not have to bear any responsibility.It is a shame that Europe has not understood this, and that today and over the coming years it will find itself involved in a very tough fight, where it will have to use much more incisive, firm and hard-hitting means. I have tried, drawing on my wealth of experience, to make the Members of the European Parliament understand this. I am sorry that many of them have not fully grasped what I have been trying to make them understand throughout this part-session.
Madam President, I wanted to say this a minute ago, during the debate, straight after Mr Dillen’s speech. In it, he made a passionate plea for the ‘Iron Rhine’ railway connection between the port of Antwerp and the Ruhr area. I wanted to point out that, when, a year or 18 months ago, we discussed a Commission proposal to extend the TEN projects – a proposal which did not make it through in the end, and which has now been replaced by a new one – I tabled an amendment to include the Iron Rhine as a matter of priority. I just wanted to put on the record that Mr Dillen’s predecessors abstained on that proposal back then.
Alzheimer’s disease and other neuro-degenerative diseases are seriously affecting the population of Europe. According to current estimates, they affect 5% of those aged between 50 and 60, 8 to 10% of those between 60 and 70, and 10 to 20% of those between 70 and 80.These diseases which affect the brain occupy third place in the tragic hit parade of diseases, after cardio-vascular diseases in first place and cancer in second place.Alzheimer’s and related diseases affect millions of European citizens who, in time, become incapable of coping with their lives, not to mention their families who, when they assume responsibility for the care of such patients, have to reduce considerably or even give up their professional activities.These diseases are having disastrous human, economic and social consequences for our society. In addition to the mental suffering caused by these diseases, there are almost no specialised care homes available, and those which do exist are often too expensive for the patient or his family, and are not covered by the social security system or by medical insurance. There is therefore an urgent need to develop, on all fronts, a real plan for the organised control of this scourge, which affects all of us either directly or indirectly.The economic and social burden of diseases of the brain represents 35% of the cost of all diseases in Europe, and this figure is expected to rise in the next ten to twenty years. This finding must lead to a redefinition of the policies to be pursued regarding research, education, healthcare, prevention and social protection.Since a third of the total cost of all diseases is attributable to diseases of the brain, the following measures are necessary: a substantial part of the funding for research into the life sciences should be devoted to the brain and its diseases, in particular Alzheimer’s disease, and the Seventh Framework Programme currently being negotiated should take this into account; a substantial share of spending on healthcare (prevention, diagnosis and treatment) should be devoted to these diseases; medical study programmes should be proportionately targeted against these diseases; a system of social protection should be set up, making it possible to give material support (care homes) and financial support to patients suffering from this disability and their families; and finally a European brain disease monitoring centre should be set up.This scourge is so widespread, and its impact on our society so severe, that it is the duty of the various European institutions, the Commission, the European Parliament and the Council, and of the Member States, to take all appropriate measures within their power to combat, control and prevent these neuro-degenerative diseases such as Alzheimer’s, and to help those who suffer from them.
Mr President, I should like to give an explanation of vote on the BSE feed resolution. I voted against whole herd slaughter because I do not believe it is the best way to eradicate BSE. I have heard that there are some farmers who, rather than report they have an animal with BSE, shoot that animal and bury it. I know that in France they have had whole herd slaughter and this does not seem to be the best way forward. Even the Scientific Steering Committee says it is not necessarily the most effective, and feed cohort slaughter – which we have in Britain – is effective.I also voted against Amendment No 7 because I do not believe it is possible, but I did vote for the resolution as a whole, especially the ban on the mammalian meat-and-bone meal feed for all farm animals, as we have had in the UK since 1996. I voted for the resolution because we have to have strong rules applicable across the EU.
Mr President, the EU is the key donor to the Palestinian territories. According to the UN, since the closures, more than one million Palestinians have been living under the poverty line of two dollars a day. The human effect of the closures is possibly even worse. Commissioner Patten stated it a moment ago: sick people cannot even get to the European hospital in Gaza because even ambulances cannot get through the barricades. It is therefore of key importance that we continue providing aid. I am delighted that the Council and Commission share our view.I returned from the Palestinian territories last Sunday together with a delegation from Parliament. We are all agreed on one thing: it is important to give money, but we are not giving enough. The Union must also assume its political responsibility. It is only managing to play a valuable role in the peace process in very small steps. That is due not least to the dissension within the Union. I would therefore like to hear from Mr Solana what he intends to do in order to bring the Union to sing from the same songsheet.Once detailed maps of Jerusalem are available, as well as plans for the settlements, and a scheme for the return of and compensation for refugees, I wonder whether the Union will have the in-house expertise it takes to adopt an intelligent position of its own, or will we leave this to the Americans?We must make sure this discussion does not become black and white. By maintaining a certain degree of neutrality, Europe could, in fact, make a valuable contribution. Both sides of this conflict are violating agreements. We must call them both to task about this. Killing people is unacceptable under any circumstances, whether this is in the form of executions carried out by the Palestinian Authority or the Israeli army’s assassination policy. But, Mr Danielsson, Europe will lay itself open to the criticism that it is applying double standards if it takes four and a half months to call the Israelis to account, whilst this is done promptly in the case of Palestinians.This Parliament too, with its secondary delegations, one for Israel and one for the Palestinian territories, is running the risk of sending out the wrong message. We must now work on unanimity and understanding of the legitimate concerns on both sides.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as regular as clockwork, we make high-flown statements and condemn the violence in the Middle East. Is that really all we can manage to do? Why can the European Union not play a more active role in this conflict? Right now, there are various reasons why the European Union should be playing a pioneering role in the peace process.Sadly, recent events have made a further radicalisation between Israel and the Palestinians more than likely. The status of the United States as a good international negotiator has been dealt a few serious blows after Afghanistan and Iraq. The implementation of the international step-by-step plan appears a long way off, so the European Union should act. Peace and stability are entirely in its interest. After all, we are the region's largest trading partner and the largest donor of humanitarian and financial aid. When will our words at last be followed by deeds?
Mr President, this time we are discussing Russia’s financial crisis. It is just one of those serious inter-related problems, or crises, Russia is struggling against at the same time. These problems have one sole cause: the political crisis. In this I am in full agreement with the view of Mr Paasilinna. Since the collapse of thesystem, Russia has had no viable political system. The parliamentary elections organised for the end of this year and the presidential elections next year may create a basis for solving the political crisis; at least we must hope they will.The international community must be patient with Russia. As the political system and the main social institutions do not function properly, some of the aid to the country is getting wasted. Aid and assistance to Russia must, however, continue, but we have to learn from experience so that the operation may be as successful as possible. The European Union must strive to ensure in particular that Russia can develop a workable democratic system for itself, with viable social and economic institutions. To assist the operation it would be of value to establish regionally and locally based contact and co-operation between the countries of the EU and Russia. This would provide, on a massive scale, a context for providing Russia with the social and economic know-how the country badly needs. There are particularly favourable opportunities for this in border areas between the EU and Russia, as the bilateral agreement on co-operation in neighbouring areas made between Finland and Russia at the start of the 1990s shows.Unfortunately, there have been difficulties in communication between the European Parliament and the Duma. The meeting of the parliamentary Committee on Development and Co-operation planned for this autumn has been postponed. We must hope that it will be organised again as soon as possible. The Committee on Development and Co-operation has grown, and it has many new members from our group. For this reason, we should make our work more effective to increase, for example, the knowledge our members have of Russia. It might still be appropriate to hold a seminar this autumn, one in which we could acquire more expert knowledge on economic and social conditions in Russia. In addition, we need a monitoring committee to help members to keep their knowledge of Russia continuously up to date.Mr President, in my opinion, the Commission’s report was well-informed and valid, and I believe that the Commission will attend to the issue of the economic crisis in Russia and matters generally connected with Russian relations.
We have chosen to vote against Mr Stevenson’s report in its entirety. There is no justification for the committee’s taking the ban on processing animal protein in animal feed as a pretext for demanding EU subsidies for lupins – would you believe – and other protein-rich crops. Equally unjustified is the demand for a ‘safety net’ or income-insurance scheme to benefit producers of oilseed and protein crops.According to the committee, the Commission’s solution of using the world market almost exclusively, would make the EU vulnerable, ‘particularly to climate change, harvest failures and even price increases from the main global suppliers (USA, Argentina and Brazil)’. We see nothing wrong or unnatural about that. On the contrary. As liberals, we believe in globalisation, free trade and international solidarity. We cannot therefore support Mr Stevenson’s report.
Mr President, the media have portrayed a distorted image of the disaster which struck Mozambique. Whilst the world witnessed scenes of desperate people on rooftops and in trees, aid had already got under way off camera. At least gripping images have a mobilising effect on public opinion and provide a strong base for aid. But the other side of the coin is that disasters which do not reach the news, to all intents and purposes, do not exist. This is why it is essential that international aid is not led by the media but only by the people in need.According to the organisations involved, despite everything, aid has got under way relatively quickly. This may be true, but this does not apply to the primary rescue operations. It was not the Commission which was responsible for this, but the governments. Aircraft, helicopters, food and medicine must be available on demand and at a moment’s notice. And I mean literally at a moment’s notice. The waiting period should only be determined by the distance involved, not the red tape. There is a need for much better cooperation between the aid organisations and the armed forces to this end.It is commendable that Commissioner Nielson travelled to Mozambique so quickly. I would be interested to hear about his trip and what he thinks of the criticism of the government? And what about the criticism concerning coordination? The 25 million aid package is sufficient for now, but will need to be increased at a later date.Mozambique has now entered an extremely difficult phase. Diseases must be kept at bay, the landmines littering the area must be cleared and re-housing schemes must be established. For many Mozambicans, the misery is only just starting, now that the media have packed up and moved on. It is therefore up to us, Parliament, the Council and the Commission, to closely monitor the victims ourselves.(Applause)
The Santer Commission was forced to resign following suspicions of fraud which I will not go into again.During the hearings of the present Commissioners, all of them, led by Mr Prodi, promised to reform their departments and to establish a genuine European Anti-Fraud Office which would be independent and would have the necessary resources to carry out its tasks to the best of its ability.OLAF is now a reality but we must keep going along this excellent path. We still have to define certain operating procedures and to guarantee the full independence of the Office.The report presented by Mr Bösch clearly highlights the problems which remain and ways of solving them. So we insist that the OLAF reports are sent to the competent committee of the European Parliament.More importantly, however, the report launches an urgent appeal for the establishment of a genuine European Public Prosecutor’s Office charged with scrutinising every case of fraud perpetrated against the financial interests of the European Communities. This is an essential element in the necessary fight against fraud which, together with the Commission, we must see through to a successful conclusion in the shortest possible time. The credibility and the image of the European Union are at stake.Finally, in his explanatory statement, Mr Bösch floated the idea of inviting the future Belgian Presidency to do everything in its power to ensure that serious progress is made in the establishment of a European Public Prosecutor’s Office.I fully subscribe to this idea.The report by Mr Bösch is ambitious, resolute and realistic. I therefore voted for this report in the fervent hope that the Belgian Presidency might set the European Union on the path chosen by the European Parliament.
I regret that due to the pressure of the agenda, there is only time to discuss three urgent matters. I endorse the view that Mr Katiforis and yourself have put forward, namely that when we talk about the plane-spotters, we should not interfere in national criminal law policy, but this does indicate, however, that there is good reason for better harmonising the penalty for crimes at European level, particularly in the light of the measures that have been taken in the wake of 11 September. The Liberals wanted to submit an urgent motion on this matter, but this was unfortunately overtaken by other priorities. In the case of other urgent business, an urgent motion or resolution is submitted more or less every month, and in this connection, I regret that we do not put a European issue on the agenda.
Madam President, Sweden has a different alcohol policy from the rest of Europe. Social policy on alcohol springs from a history of serious heavy drinking. For a long time, this policy successfully held its own against influence from outside. That is not the case today.Globalisation, an increasingly mobile population and EU membership have caused conditions to change. The current derogation regarding imports of alcohol and tobacco into Sweden was not going to last forever. The new agreement now in the offing between the Swedish Government and the EU would involve a gradual increase in import quotas. This is a good compromise which would give Sweden the opportunity to adapt to the new situation.Mr Maaten has prepared a good report. It is no panegyric to the view that alcohol is merely an agricultural matter, a view expressed in certain parts of Europe. On the contrary, Mr Maaten makes it perfectly clear that alcohol must also begin to be dealt with as a public health issue.Sweden’s alcohol policy has led to a situation in which both total consumption and alcohol-related illnesses have been kept at low levels. At the same time, the system, with its monopoly on sales and very high taxes, has been put under heavy pressure in a Europe with open borders. At present, a large proportion of the alcohol consumed in Sweden consists of smuggled and illicitly distilled spirits. Border trade between Sweden and its neighbours is flourishing.The increase in import quotas will give Sweden a chance progressively to adjust both its alcohol policy and level of tax in accordance with the policy that is being pursued in other European countries. Lower taxes are required in Sweden, but higher taxes may also perhaps be required in some other EU countries. Sweden cannot conduct an alcohol policy with the aid of border controls and of tax levels higher than those of our neighbours. Now is the time to find new solutions. I believe that what is required is cooperation with other countries, together with a future alcohol policy characterised by a proactive information strategy. What is required is a sensible alcohol policy marked by social responsibility and increased responsibility on the part of the individual. A greater European input is needed in Sweden, but perhaps also a greater Swedish input in Europe.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mrs Buitenweg and quoting the words of Commissioner Vitorino. He said that Mrs Buitenweg’s report takes a pragmatic approach, and I fully share this view. I have had an absence of approximately three years from this Parliament, and I am extremely surprised at the stormy, heated debates on this report – even within my own group, I have to say in fairness. After all, we are only talking about an evaluation and a reassessment of the agreements made in the past. I cannot imagine, therefore, why we should not be in favour of it. These are all people who consider it perfectly normal to send their car for inspection after a number of years, and they cannot comprehend why an evaluation should take place here after a period of over thirty years, and conclusions be drawn from it.What is this actually all about, Mr President? It is about us all wanting to curb the production, traffic in and abuse of drugs, in particular the abuse of extremely harmful drugs. No one voting in favour of Mrs Buitenweg’s report is intending to offer up children to any kind of drug abuse. The only question that we must answer together is: what is the best method? I cannot do that. If I could – off the cuff, as it were – as Mr Pirker can, it would be very convenient, and I would probably be very rich, as I would have found a solution to a global problem. I must honestly admit that I cannot. I do think, however, that those who can – who can carry out an evaluation on the basis of global data – should be free to do so.In this connection, I also wish to argue once more in favour of uniform statistics. Anyone who immerses himself in this problem cannot escape the conclusion that very few statistics exist that are comparable. I am of the opinion that one should only venture to propose changes to the policy on the basis of correct, clear data.It may well be that an evaluation of the current policy will mean confirming this policy, purely for want of a better solution. I am not advocating this, nor do I expect it, but it is a possible outcome of this report. I do not understand, then, why so many amendments aiming to prevent the evaluation have been tabled. I should like, therefore, to ask those Members calling for others to vote against the Buitenweg report, or in any case the parts of it regarding the evaluation, to have another good think about what is really the best way now to solve the serious drugs problem together. Burying one's head in the sand and pretending the problem does not exist is not the right way. Daring to carry out an evaluation together, on the basis of correct data – that, in my opinion, is the right way.
Mr President, on behalf of our group I just wanted to explain why we voted against the report. The European group of liberals and democrats always felt that the Agency for Reconstruction in Kosovo should be based in Priština and only in Priština and should not, in some way or other, be linked with or part of, or work in tandem with, some other agency in Thessaloniki. We believe that this is the only logical position and it is also the only position that is in the interests of the Kosovars themselves. In view of the fact that the original text from the Commission is very clear in this respect and Mrs Pack’s amendment adding the Thessaloniki aspect is superfluous, our group has opted to vote against the report.What I do want to make clear is that our group does support this Parliament’s position when it comes to improving the efficiency of the agency’s management and the procedures, and of course when it comes to making the agency subject to OLAF’s supervision; indeed how could it be otherwise for I penned these amendments myself. Consequently, we are particularly pleased that the Commission is to adopt many of these amendments. The specific answers that Mr Patten has just given this Parliament are, however, in stark contrast with the overwhelming silence on the part of the Council. The Council has systematically refused to enter into constructive dialogue with this Parliament about the content of the report. We consider this attitude unacceptable and, as far as that is concerned, we are particularly keen to support the position adopted by Mrs Pack, who endeavoured to delay this report up until the very last moment.I would just like to clearly point out – sadly the Council is not present – that Parliament will, of course, have the last word on this matter under the terms of Budget 2000. To sum up, Madam President, as a group we were faced with what was in fact a difficult dilemma in that we had to decide whether to vote for a report that went some of the way towards accommodating our concerns but not on that one essential point, namely Priština. That is why we opted for clarity and consistency at the end of the day and voted against the report.- Palacio Vallelersundi Report (A5-0037/1999)
Mr President, this is a truly distressing affair. Possibly the most important founding principle of the European Union was peace and those who seek to join the Union must try to conduct their domestic and their foreign affairs in as peaceable a fashion as possible.Turkey, as we appreciate, suffers from an extremely vulnerable border and it is a particular problem for it to establish the requisite stability and peaceful circumstances that its integration to Europe properly requires. As a part of the pre-accession phase of Turkey's candidacy, we should try to establish a functional forum where military as well as civilian and economic issues should be shared between us. Turkey's membership of NATO presents many of our Member States with a special responsibility in this respect. The development of a common European Security and Defence Policy should be seen as a pretext, and also as a bridge, for us to reach common positions on ways to combat terrorism while respecting fundamental rights.If we are able to succeed in creating such a practical forum, we should be able to expect that this sort of sad critical incident will be put firmly in the past.
I would urge you not to let a reunified Europe become divided over Atlantic unity. Commissioner Patten is right. The most pressing world problems cannot, and should not, be solved by the United States alone. Whether these problems concern weapons of mass destruction, human rights, poverty, religious conflicts or lack of democracy, it is vitally important for America and Europe to join forces. Europeans must join Bush in showing the West's neo-progressive face to the world.The European Union can be Washington's fully-fledged partner only if it acts like one. If the French-German axis turns away from Washington, while the British-Polish axis moves towards Bush, we will end up not making any headway at all. We must put the trauma of Iraq to one side and, as the European Union, draft a joint global strategy with the United States. Two strategies are too many, and there is no room for either inflated national egos or conservative ideological agendas. Let us now reunite Europe and America using a pragmatic approach, in other words the D'66 approach.
Mr President, we talked about this issue a month ago and had an excellent discussion with the Commissioner. We were all agog. Naturally we welcome the fact that the process has been opened up to North Korea. It is just a shame that we have not seen fit to make the necessary funds available to go with it. Apart from that, we feel the outcome left a lot to be desired, and that is putting it mildly. What we dislike about ASEM II is not so much what we have managed to achieve, because projects to do with money-laundering, HIV and AIDS, food safety and suchlike, are of course to be welcomed. In fact two concrete proposals have been adopted, notably the round table on globalisation and the duo fellowship programme, 4300 fellowships amounting to a total cost of USD 25 million. That is not to be sniffed at of course, but there are still a few questions we would like answered. I will return to them in due course.What is more important is what was not adopted. We could have done so much more in terms of financial stability, trade and investments, and infrastructure. An ASEM environmental centre was proposed. Now that would have been something. What concerns us is what we failed to do on the human rights front. Things were said but they have not found their way into the projects that were agreed, not even in terms of the considerable reserve, for example, although this could easily have been done. In any case, this considerable reserve also has something to do with globalisation. We agreed to concentrate on globalisation, in particular the adverse effects thereof, when in fact we believe that globalisation is a positive force. There is a down side but surely we should also consider the bonuses.We find it incomprehensible that the secretariat for the fellowship programme is to be located in Seoul. ASEF is working extremely well in Singapore, so why not establish it there?We know that the Commission values ASEM extremely highly and it has our wholehearted support on that score. What we want to know is whether our Ministers have given ASEM due consideration. We feel they have been sadly lacking in ambition and are therefore unworthy of praise.Some headway has been made in terms of Asia-Europe parliamentary dialogue. Perhaps we parliamentarians can succeed where Ministers have failed in this respect. The European Commission deserves our support because we are convinced it is going about things the right way. That said, we feel the Ministers ought to have been able to achieve a much better result.
Mr President, I would like to thank Mrs Oomen for the huge amount of work she has done. She, herself, has also indicated that this is an important issue for which little is being done, for which politicians hardly have any consideration, and, as we can see, it is extremely difficult to lend this matter some clarity.Despite this, I have some observations in this respect, which is also apparent from my amendments. I, myself, live in a border region and every day, I see people from my area who commute to another country. Whether this is Germany or Belgium, they cross the border at any rate.What I have noticed is that the regulation on social security, No 1408, also applies to workers who decide to move to the country of employment and actually live there. I welcome clarity in this matter, and I have tabled two amendments to this effect. I agree with this position and I have also told Mrs Oomen. But I do believe that we should include a caveat so that, if it transpires that after eighteen months or two years, an assessment should be made and if, based on this assessment, it appears that frontier workers are suffering disproportionate drawbacks, a different choice can be made, and I would like to see this caveat included in the report.Mrs Oomen takes the country of employment as the guiding principle. I believe that it is not so evident that the country of employment principle always works in the interests of, and benefits, the frontier workers. I am of the opinion that we work to live and not the other way round. For that reason, I believe that all the money and certainties we obtain on the shop floor should be brought to bear in our living environment. That is why I am in favour of considering the possibility of using the country of residence principle.I have included the above in an amendment. I would therefore ask my fellow MEPs to vote in favour of this amendment. I have also tabled two amendments to Articles 6 and 7 to have these deleted, because I believe that the Commission is not competent to take measures to intervene in bilateral agreements.
Madam President, there is nothing new in companies’ assuming social responsibility. It has long been a part of European companies’ day-to-day practice to assume responsibilities – over and above those required by laws and regulations – for their employees, their surroundings and the environment.In Denmark, we have been working for a number of years on companies’ social responsibilities, particularly with a view to keeping people in work and getting excluded groups into the labour market. This has taken place in the form of very productive dialogue and interaction between companies and authorities. Another example I want to mention is the cooperation between thirteen major groups in Scandinavia which, together with the World Nature Fund, are working on developing a sustainable development programme. The key term for describing these efforts is the pursuit of excellence, rather than mere compliance with what the law requires. It is about acting from the heart and taking the company as one’s point of departure. In short, the key words are commitment and voluntarism.It also jars with me, therefore, when many here in Parliament wish to regulate voluntary efforts and force companies to report on, and explain, their efforts. That is something I have fought against. On the other hand, I think it is a good idea to promote the exchange of experiences and ideas in this area and so support the efforts already made by companies and organisations to structure and standardise this work. I think the Dublin Institute is very well suited to this purpose, given the skills and the network already possessed by the Institute. Much thanks is therefore due to the Commission for having initiated the debate. We in the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party are able, then, to support active efforts to develop companies’ social responsibilities.
Mr President, on a point of order, I wish to ask whether you can confirm whether the reindeer were on the ground or in the air at the time.(Laughter)
Mr President, in some EU Member States, and particularly in my own country, the Netherlands, this is the most serious agricultural crisis we have known in years. I would like to express my sympathy to the farming families affected by this, and also to other people who are suffering the effects.The liberal group is backing the policy of emergency vaccinations to restrict the outbreak and spread of the virus. We are of the opinion that, ultimately, this will need to lead to complete eradication of the foot-and-mouth virus throughout Europe.We cannot turn a blind eye to the major doubts which pervade Europe with regard to the non-vaccination policy. What the Commissioner stated this afternoon can be applauded, but the message must be made clearer to the public. What would the implications be if we were to abandon the current policy? What are the effects on markets in Europe? What would be the implications on the income of the farming families if we were to abandon this policy? This message must be driven home.I would now like to draw your attention to another aspect. At the moment, we are exercising extremely strict control at airports and other entry points. This should not be a temporary but permanent measure. We must follow the lead of the United States and Australia, where such controls have been in place for years. The Commissioner talked about the transport policy in Europe. We must consider whether we cannot set up certain quarantine zones throughout Europe, so that animals can no longer contaminate each other at the so-called resting points which are being used at the moment.I would like to finish off on a minor point. Farmers have been unable to deliver milk for some days in various countries. Is it possible that the Commission could revise its decision to adjust their quota downwards? They must be given an extra milk quota, so that they are not suffering more damage than they already are. The days on which they were unable to deliver should be added to their quota.
Madam President, I want, on behalf of my group, to express a very warm welcome to Mr Chirac both in his role as President-in-Office of the Council and for coming here as President of France to underline the importance which France and he personally attach to the work of this presidency.(FR) Last Sunday, thanks to “the blues”, France became Champions of Europe. I hope that, under your Presidency, France will once again become a champion for Europe!We have listened with great interest to your speech today and to the speech you made last week in Berlin. Both make important contributions to the European debate. The Europe of tomorrow matters to all of us. Much in the European debate is unsettled. What is the territory of Europe; what are its function, identity and values? In launching such a debate you have done Europe a service.However, the incentive to speculate on tomorrow's Europe should not become a disincentive to act on today's Europe. As we contemplate enlargement, today's Europe of fifteen has, as you have remarked this morning, major tasks in hand. One cannot underestimate the importance of the 'Amsterdam leftovers' as we prepare ourselves for this enlargement.You have spoken of having more than an accord à minimum. We certainly agree with that. My group attaches very great importance, as you have done today, to a charter of fundamental rights as part of the package that we contemplate in Nice.Like you, Mr President, we believe that Europe should be based on the values of freedom, dignity, tolerance, democracy and rights. We respect the role of the European Commission in bringing balance to our debate and our respective interests. We value the access which our citizens have to democratic checks and balances – through this House and elsewhere – in the formulation of European legislation. We value transparency and working in public on the record, not behind closed doors. We value the rights of citizens to appeal to the European Court of Justice where they perceive injustice. None of these things are characteristic of intergovernmentalism. We must be cautious about a drift in that direction. My group believes that a strong Europe needs European institutions with a key role for the European Commission.I agree with you that we should have a constitution for Europe. We can launch a debate on that but clearly it is too complex a question to resolve in the next six months. I would express one hope: that this debate does not become a third lock on the door of enlargement. Helsinki set two tests: firstly we must reform ourselves in Nice; secondly the candidate states must take on board the acquis communautaire. We should not add a third lock on the door by saying we must have a constitution before they join. It is our historic task to bring about a successful enlargement. I know from your remarks that you agree with that. It is important to give that reassurance.I believe that France, once again, has the opportunity to champion the cause of Europe. We wish you and your government every success in the next six months.
Madam President, it is with regard to Amendment No 32 in which the English uses the phrase “may use works” and the Swedish uses “tillgång till” [literally “access to”]. This is not the same, so I request correction in all language versions. Ideally, this point should have been made before the vote.
Madam President, I often visit businesses and people on the border between Denmark and Germany and hear again and again about the problems of living on one side of the border and working on the other side. It means, indeed, that many people do not even try to do so. In actual fact, there are only 1 000 people who commute across the Danish/German border in spite of the fact that unemployment south of the border stands at 12%, and north of the border is as low as 6%. There are obviously linguistic barriers to taking up work on the other side of the border, but the different ways in which the tax and social security systems are set up are also of very great importance.What of course distinguishes Denmark is that we fund our social security systems across the border via the general taxation system, while in the rest of the EU more use is made of earmarked social security contributions. This has a role to play in creating part of the problem we experience. I should not, in a way, mind it if we in Denmark were to obtain reforms whereby future payments were better at reflecting the individual’s responsibility for the common good and whereby the costs of social security arrangements were made clearer, that is to say through an increase in the number of earmarked contributions. Such reforms could also reduce the problems posed by the Danish social security system in relation to other countries’ systems.That is not, of course, at present on the agenda, however. We are concerned here with simplifying the coordination of the social security arrangements between the Member States, and there is a great need to simplify these very complex rules which, over the years, have become progressively more complex.I should like to thank Mrs Lambert for the work she has done. I am in favour of Parliament seeking to cooperate with the Council on these issues and seeking to work in tandem with it. We must not delay the reforms unnecessarily. I believe it would be easier to get the reforms through before, rather than after, enlargement. We must not, therefore, be so focused upon the ideal that we fail to obtain a workable solution right now.
Madam President, I should like to make it clear to my fellow MEPs that, if Amendment No 9, tabled by the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, is adopted, the issue will be sent back to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. That will be the correct method of proceeding, for it will give us more time to investigate the legal consequences of this proposal. I received an answer from the Council yesterday, stating that it did not want to express an opinion on the proposal’s legal validity as long as the proposal was being debated in the Council. I simply believe it would be wrong for us to proceed to a vote here in Parliament before such a legal evaluation has been made available to us. I find the Council’s answer totally unacceptable. I would ask my fellow MEPs to support Amendment No 9 so that we can obtain a new reading in the committee.(Applause)